Volume 4, Study VII - The Nations Assembled And The Preparation Of The Elements For The Great Fire Of God's Indignation 

 <269> 

 STUDY VII 
 THE NATIONS ASSEMBLED AND THE PREPARATION OF THE ELEMENTS FOR THE GREAT FIRE OF GOD'S INDIGNATION 

 How and Why the Nations are Assembled--The Social Elements Preparing 
 for the Fire--The Heaping of Treasures--The Increase of Poverty 
 --Social Friction Nearing Combustion--A Word from the President 
 of the American Federation of Labor--The Rich sometimes too 
 Severely Condemned--Selfishness and Liberty in Combination--Independence 
 as Viewed by the Rich and by the Poor--Why Present Conditions 
 Cannot Continue--Machinery an Important Factor in Preparing 
 for the Great Fire--Female Competition--Labor's View of the Situation, 
 Reasonable and Unreasonable--The Law of Supply and Demand 
 Inexorable upon all--The Outlook for Foreign Industrial Competition 
 apalling--Mr. Justin McCarthy's Fears for England--Kier 
 Hardie, M.P., on the Labor Outlook in England--Hon. Jos. Chamberlain's 
 Prophetic Words to British Workmen--National Aggression as 
 Related to Industrial Interests--Herr Liebknecht on the Social and 
 Industrial War in Germany--Resolutions of the International Trades 
 Union Congress--Giants in These Days--List of Trusts and Combines-- 
 Barbaric Slavery vs. Civilized Bondage--The Masses Between the Upper 
 and Nether Millstones--The Conditions Universal and Beyond 
 Human Power to Regulate.

 "WAIT ye upon me, saith the Lord, until the day that I rise up to
the prey: for my determination is to gather the nations, that I
may assemble the kingdoms, to pour upon them mine indignation,
even all my fierce anger; for all the earth shall be devoured
with the fire of my jealousy [wrath]. For then will I turn to
the people a pure language, that they may all call upon the name
of the Lord, to serve him with one consent." `Zeph. 3:8,9`

 <270> 

 The gathering of the nations in these last days, in fulfilment
of the above prophecy, is very notable. Modern discovery
and invention have indeed made the remotest ends
of the earth neighbors to each other. Travel, mailing facilities,
the telegraph, the telephone, commerce, the multiplication
of books and newspapers, etc., have brought all
the world to a considerable extent into a community of
thought and action hitherto unknown. This condition of
things has already made necessary international laws and
regulations that each of the nations must respect. Their representatives
meet in Councils, and each nation has in every
other nation its ministers or representatives. International
Exhibitions have also been called forth as results of this
neighboring of nations. There can no more be that exclusiveness
on the part of any nation which would bar every
other nation from its ports. The gates of all are necessarily
thrown open, and must remain so; and even the barriers of
diverse languages are being easily surmounted. 

 The civilized peoples are no longer strangers in any part
of the earth. Their splendid sea equipments carry their
business representatives, their political envoys and their
curious pleasure-seekers to the remotest quarters with ease
and comfort. Magnificent railway coaches introduce them
to the interior lands, and they return home laden with information,
and with new ideas, and awakened to new projects
and enterprises. Even the dull heathen nations are
arousing themselves from the dreams of centuries and looking
with wonder and amazement at their visitors from
abroad and learning of their marvelous achievements. And
they in turn are now sending their representatives abroad
that they may profit by their new acquaintances. 

 In the days of Solomon it was thought a marvelous thing
that the queen of Sheba should come about five hundred
miles to hear the wisdom and behold the grandeur of Solomon;

 <271> 

but now numbers even of the untitled travel over the
whole world, a great portion of which was then unknown,
to see its accumulated wealth and to learn of its progress;
and the circuit of the world can now be made with comfort
and even luxury in less than eighty days. 

 Truly, the nations are "assembled" in a manner not expected,
yet in the only manner in which they could be assembled;
viz., in common interest and activity; but alas!
not in brotherly love, for selfishness marks every step of this
progress. The spirit of enterprise, of which selfishness is the
motive power, has prompted the construction of the
railways, the steamships, the telegraphs, the cables, the telephones;
selfishness regulates the commerce and the international
comity, and every other energy and enterprise,
except the preaching of the gospel and the establishment of
benevolent institutions: and even in these it is to be feared
that much that is done is inspired by motives other than
pure love for God and humanity. Selfishness has gathered
the nations and has been steadily preparing them for the
predicted, and now fast approaching, retribution--anarchy
--which is so graphically described as the "fire of
God's jealousy" or anger, which is about to consume utterly
the present social order--the world that now is. (`2 Pet. 3:7`)
Yet this is speaking only from the human standpoint; for
the Prophet ascribes this gathering of the nations to God.
But both are true; for while man is permitted the exercise of
his free agency, God, by his overruling providence , is shaping
human affairs for the accomplishment of his own wise purposes.
And therefore, while men and their works and ways
are the agents and agencies, God is the great Commander
who now gathers the nations and assembles the kingdoms
from one end of the earth to the other, preparatory to the
transfer of earth's dominion to him "whose right it is,"
Immanuel.

 <272> 

 The Prophet tells us why the Lord thus gathers the nations,
saying--"That I may pour upon them mine indignation,
even all my fierce anger; for the whole earth [the
entire social fabric] shall be devoured with the fire of my
jealousy." This message would bring us sorrow and anguish
only, were it not for the assurance that the results shall work
good to the world, overthrowing the reign of selfishness and
establishing, through Christ's Millennial Kingdom, the
reign of righteousness referred to in the words of the
prophet--" Then will I turn unto the people a pure language
[Their communications with each other shall no longer be
selfish, but pure, truthful and loving, to the intent] that
they may all call upon the name of the Lord to serve him
with one consent." 

 The "gathering of the nations" will not only contribute
to the severity of the judgment, but it will also make it impossible
for any to escape it; and it will thus make the great
tribulation a short, as well as a decisive, conflict, as it is written:
"A short work will the Lord make upon the earth."
`Rom. 9:28`; `Isa. 28:22`

 The Social Elements Preparing for the Fire

 Looking about us we see the "elements" preparing for the
fire of this day--the fire of God's wrath. Selfishness, knowledge,
wealth, ambition, hope, discontent, fear and despair
are the ingredients whose friction will shortly set aflame the
angry passions of the world and cause its various social "elements"
to melt in the fervent heat. Looking out over the
world, note what changes have taken place in respect to
these passions during the past century, and especially during
the past forty years. The satisfied contentment of the
past is gone from all classes--rich and poor, male and female,
educated and ignorant. All are dissatisfied. All are
selfishly and increasingly grasping for "rights" or bemoaning

 <273> 

"wrongs." True, there are wrongs, grievous wrongs,
which should be righted, and rights that should be enjoyed
and respected; but the tendency of our time, with its increase
of knowledge and independence, is to look only at
the side of questions closest to self-interest, and to fail to
appreciate the opposite side. The effect foretold by the
prophets will be ultimately to set every man's hand against
his neighbor, which will be the immediate cause of the
great final catastrophe. God's Word and providence and
the lessons of the past are forgotten under the strong convictions
of personal rights, etc., which hinder people of every
class from choosing the wiser, moderate course, which
they cannot even see because selfishness blinds them to everything
out of accord with their own prejudices. Each class
fails to consider with impartiality the welfare and rights of
the other. The golden rule is generally ignored; and the lack
of wisdom as well as the injustice of this course will soon be
made manifest to all classes, for all classes will suffer terribly
in this trouble. But the rich, the Scriptures inform us, will
suffer most. 

 While the rich are diligently heaping up fabulous treasure
for these last days, tearing down their storehouses and
building greater, and saying to themselves and their posterity,
"Soul, thou hast much goods laid up for many years;
eat, drink and be merry," God, through the prophets, is
saying, "Thou fool! this night thy soul shall be required of
thee. Then whose shall those things be which thou hast provided?"
`Luke 12:15-20` 

 Yes, the dark night predicted (`Isa. 21:12; 28:12,13,21,22`;
`John 9:4`) is fast approaching; and, as a snare, it shall
overtake the whole world. Then, indeed, whose shall these
hoarded treasures be, when, in the distress of the hour,
"they shall cast their silver in the streets and their gold shall
be removed?" "Their silver and their gold shall not be able

 <274> 

to deliver them in the day of the wrath of the Lord:...because
it is the stumbling block of their iniquity." `Ezek. 7:19`

 The Heaping of Treasures

 It is evident that we are in a time pre-eminent above all
others for the accumulation of wealth, and for "wanton" or
extravagant living on the part of the rich. (`James 5:3,5`) Let
us hear some testimony from current literature. If the point
is conclusively proved, it becomes another evidence that we
are in the "last days" of the present dispensation and nearing
the great trouble which shall eventually wreck the present
order of the world and usher in the new order of things
under the Kingdom of God. 

 The Hon. Wm. E. Gladstone, in a speech widely reported,
after referring to the present as a "wealth-producing
age," said: 

 "There are gentlemen before me who have witnessed a
greater accumulation of wealth within the period of their
lives than has been seen in all preceding times since the days
of Julius Caesar." 

 Note this statement by one of the best informed men in
the world. This fact, so difficult for us to comprehend--that
more wealth has been produced and accumulated during
the past fifty years than during the previous nineteen centuries
--is nevertheless shown by statistics to be a very conservative
estimate, and the new conditions thus produced
are destined to play an important part in the readjustment
of the social order of the world now impending. 

 The Boston Globe , some years ago, gave the following account
of some of the wealthy men of the United States: 

 "The twenty-one railroad magnates who met in New
York on Monday, to discuss the question of railroad competition,
represented $3,000,000,000 of capital. Men now
living can remember when there were not half a dozen millionaires

 <275> 

in the land. There are now numbered 4,600 millionaires
and several whose yearly income is said to be over
a million. 

 "There are in New York City, at a conservative calculation,
the surprising number of 1,157 individuals and estates
that are each worth $1,000,000. There are in Brooklyn
162 individuals and estates each worth at least $1,000,000.
In the two cities there are then 1,319 millionaires, but many
of these are worth much more than $1,000,000--they are
multi-millionaires, and the nature of these great fortunes is
different, and they therefore yield different incomes. The
rates of interest which some of the more conspicuous ones
draw are reckoned in round numbers, thus: John D. Rockefeller's
6 per cent; William Waldorf Astor's, 7 per cent;
Jay Gould's estate, which, being wrapped up in corporations,
is still practically undivided, 4 per cent; Cornelius
Vanderbilt's, 5 per cent and William K. Vanderbilt's,
5 per cent. 

 "Calculating at the foregoing rates and compounding interest
semi-annually, to allow for reinvestment, the yearly
and daily incomes of the four individuals and of the estates
named are as follows: 

 Yearly Daily
William Waldorf Astor.................$8,900,000 $23,277
John D. Rockefeller................... 7,611,250 20,853
Jay Gould's Estate.................... 4,040,000 11,068
Cornelius Vanderbilt.................. 4,048,000 11,090
William K. Vanderbilt................. 3,795,000 10,397

 The above is evidently a conservative estimate, for even
sixteen years ago it was noted that Mr. Rockefeller's quarterly
dividend on Standard Oil Company's stock, of which
he is one of the principal holders, was represented by a
check for four millions of dollars; and the same holdings
today yield a far greater income. 

 The Niagara Falls Review even before the dawn of the present
century sounded the following warning note:

 <276> 

 "One of the greatest dangers which now menace the stability
of American institutions is the increase of individual
millionaires, and the consequent concentration of property
and money in single hands. A recent article in a prominent
paper of New York State gives figures which must serve to
draw general attention to the evolution of this difficulty.
The following are said to be the nine greatest fortunes in the
United States:

William Waldorf Astor.............................$150,000,000
Jay Gould......................................... 100,000,000
John D. Rockefeller............................... 90,000,000
Cornelius Vanderbilt.............................. 90,000,000
William K. Vanderbilt............................. 80,000,000
Henry M. Flagler.................................. 60,000,000
John L. Blair..................................... 50,000,000
Russell Sage...................................... 50,000,000
Collis P. Huntington.............................. 50,000,000 

 ------------ 

 Total...............................$720,000,000

 "Estimating the yield from these immense sums in accordance
with the average interest obtained upon other
similar investments, the following would be the proceeds:

 Yearly Daily
Astor.....................................$9,135,000 $25,027
Rockefeller............................... 5,481,000 16,003
Gould..................................... 4,040,000 11,068
Vanderbilt, C. ........................... 4,554,000 12,477
Vanderbilt, W. K. ........................ 4,048,000 11,090
Flagler................................... 3,036,000 8,318
Blair..................................... 3,045,000 8,342
Sage...................................... 3,045,000 8,342
Huntington................................ 1,510,000 4,137

 "Nearly all these men live in a comparatively simple
style, and it is obviously impossible for them to spend more
than a portion of their immense daily and yearly revenues.
The surplus consequently becomes capital, and helps to
build still higher the fortunes of these individuals. Now the
Vanderbilt family possess the following immense sums:

(The past few years have increased some of these figures greatly.)

 <277> 

Cornelius Vanderbilt..........................$90,000,000
William K. Vanderbilt......................... 80,000,000
Frederick W. Vanderbilt....................... 17,000,000
George W. Vanderbilt.......................... 15,000,000
Mrs. Elliot F. Sheppard....................... 13,000,000
Mrs. William D. Sloane........................ 13,000,000
Mrs. Hamilton McK. Twombly.................... 13,000,000
Mrs. W. Seward Webb........................... 13,000,000 

 ------------ 

 Total..............$254,000,000

 "Still more wonderful are the accumulations made
through the great Standard Oil trust, which has just been
dissolved--succeeded by the Standard Oil Company. The
fortunes from it were as follows:

John D. Rockefeller...........................$90,000,000
Henry M. Flagler.............................. 60,000,000
William Rockefeller........................... 40,000,000
Benjamin Brewster............................. 25,000,000
Henry H. Rogers............................... 25,000,000
Oliver H. Payne (Cleveland)................... 25,000,000
Wm. G. Warden (Philadelphia).................. 25,000,000
Chas. Pratt estate (Brooklyn)................. 25,000,000
John D. Archbold.............................. 10,000,000 

 ------------ 

 Total...........................$325,000,000

 "It took just twenty years to combine this wealth in the
hands of eight or nine men. Here, then, is the danger. In the
hands of Gould, the Vanderbilts and Huntington are the
great railroads of the United States. In the possession of
Sage, the Astors and others, rest great blocks of New York
land, which are constantly increasing in value. United and
by natural accumulation, the fortunes of these nine families
would amount in twenty-five years to $2,754,000,000. William
Waldorf Astor himself, by pure force of accumulation,
will probably be worth a thousand millions before he dies;
and this money, like that of the Vanderbilts, will descend in
his family as in others, and create an aristocracy of wealth
extremely dangerous to the commonwealth, and forming a
curious commentary upon that aristocracy of birth or talent
which Americans consider to be so injurious in Great
Britain.

 <278> 

 "Other great fortunes are in existence or rising, a few
only of which may be given:

William Astor..................................$40,000,000
Leland Stanford................................ 30,000,000
Mrs. Hetty Green............................... 30,000,000
Philip D. Armour............................... 30,000,000
Edward F. Searles.............................. 25,000,000
J. Pierpont Morgan............................. 25,000,000
Charles Crocker estate......................... 25,000,000
Darius O. Mills................................ 25,000,000
Andrew Carnegie................................ 25,000,000
E. S. Higgins estate........................... 20,000,000
George M. Pullman.............................. 20,000,000 

 ------------ 

 Total............................$295,000,000

 "Thus we see capital in almost inconceivable sums being
vested in a few, and necessarily taken from [the opportunity
of] the many. There is no power in man to peaceably settle
this vexed question. It will go on from bad to worse."

 Some American Millionaires 

 and How They Got Their Millions

 The Editor of the Review of Reviews gives what he terms "a
few excerpts from a most instructive and entertaining paper,
the one fault of which is its optimistic view of the plutocratic
octopus," in these words: 

 "An American who writes from intimate personal knowledge,
but who prefers to remain anonymous, tells in Cornhill
Magazine with much sympathy the story of several of the
millionaires of the giant Republic. He claims that even if
the four thousand millionaires own among them forty billion
dollars out of the seventy-six billions which form the
total national wealth, still the balance leaves every citizen
$500 per head as against $330 per head forty-five years ago.
He argues that millionaires have grown by making other
classes not poorer but richer.

 <279> 

 "'Commodore Vanderbilt, who made the first Vanderbilt
millions, was born just a century ago. His capital
was the traditional bare feet, empty pocket and belief in his
luck--the foundation of so many American fortunes. Hard
work, from six years of age to sixteen, furnished him with a
second and more tangible capital, namely, one hundred
dollars in cash. This money he invested in a small boat; and
with that boat he opened a business of his own--the transportation
of vegetables to New York. At twenty years of age
he married, and man and wife both turned money-makers.
He ran his boat. She kept a hotel. Three years later he was
worth ten thousand dollars. After that his money came rapidly
--so rapidly that when the civil war broke out, the boy,
who had started with one boat, worth one hundred dollars,
was able to present to the nation one of his boats, value
eight hundred thousand dollars, and yet feel easy about his
finances and his fleet. At seventy years of age he was credited
with a fortune of seventy millions. 

 "'The Astor fortune owes its existence to the brains of
one man and the natural growth of a great nation, John Jacob
Astor being the only man in four generations who was a
real money-maker. The money he made, as he made it, was
invested in New York City property; the amount of such
property is limited, as the city stands upon an island. Consequently
the growth of New York City, which was due to
the growth of the Republic, made this small fortune of the
eighteenth century the largest American fortune of the
nineteenth century. The first and last Astor worthy of study
as a master of millions was therefore John Jacob Astor who,
tiring of his work as helper in his father's butcher shop in
Waldorf, went, about one hundred and ten years ago, to try
his luck in the new world. On the ship he really, in one
sense, made his whole fortune. He met an old fur-trader
who posted him in the tricks of Indian fur-trading. This
trade he took up and made money at. Then he married Sarah
Todd, a shrewd, energetic young woman. Sarah and
John Jacob dropped into the homely habit of passing all
their evenings in their shop sorting pelts...In fifteen years
John Jacob and Sarah his wife had accumulated twenty-five

 <280> 

hundred thousand dollars...A lucky speculation in
United States bonds, then very low in price, doubled John
Jacob's fortune; and this wealth all went into real estate,
where it has since remained. 

 "'Leland Stanford, Charles Crocker, Mark Hopkins and
Collis P. Huntington went to California in the gold fever of
1849. When the trans-continental railway was mooted
these four 'saw millions in it,' and contracted to make the
Union Pacific. The four men, penniless in 1850, are today
credited with a combined fortune of $200,000,000. 

 "'One of them, Leland Stanford, had designed to found
a family; but ten years ago his only son died, and he then
decided to establish a university in memory of that son.
And he did it in princely fashion, for while yet 'in the flesh'
he 'deeded' to trustees three farms containing 86,000 acres,
and, owing to their splendid vineyards, worth $6,000,000.
To this he added $14,000,000 worth of securities, and at his
death left the university a legacy of $2,500,000--a total gift
by one man, to one institution of learning of $22,500,000,
which is said to be a 'world's record.' His wife has announced
her intention to leave her fortune, some
$10,000,000, to the university.' 

 "The most remarkable instance of money-making shown
in the history of American millions is that furnished by the
Standard Oil Trust: 

 "'Thirty years ago five young men, most of them living
in the small city of Cleveland (State of Ohio), and all comparatively
poor (probably the whole party could not boast
of $50,000), saw monetary possibilities in petroleum. In the
emphatic language of the old river pilot, 'They went for it
thar and then,' and they got it. Today that same party of
five men is worth $600,000,000...John D. Rockefeller,
the brain and 'nerve' of this great 'trust,' is a ruddy-faced
man with eye so mild and manner so genial that it is very
hard to call him a 'grasping monopolist.' His 'hobby' now is
education, and he rides this hobby in robust, manly fashion.
He has taken the University of Chicago under his wing,
and already the sum of seven million dollars has passed

 <281> 

from his pockets to the treasury of the new seat of learning
in the second city of the Republic.'" 

 In an article in the Forum Mr. Thomas G. Shearman, a
New York statistician, gave the names of seventy Americans
whose aggregate wealth is $2,700,000,000, an average
of $38,500,000 each; and declares that a list of ten persons
could be made whose wealth would average $100,000,000
each; and another list of one hundred persons whose wealth
would average $25,000,000 each; and that "the average annual
income of the richest hundred Americans cannot be less
[each] than $1,200,000, and probably exceeds $1,500,000." 

 Commenting on this last statement, an able writer (Rev.
Josiah Strong) says: 

 "If one hundred workmen could earn each $1,000 a year,
they would have to work twelve hundred or fifteen hundred
years to earn as much as the annual income of these one hundred
richest Americans. And if a workman could earn $100
a day he would have to work until he would be five hundred
and forty-seven years old, and never take a day off, before
he could earn as much as some Americans are worth." 

 The following table compares the wealth of the four richest
nations of the world in 1830 and 1893; and shows how
riches are being "heaped together" nationally in these "last
days" of this age of almost fabulous accumulation.

 1830 1893
Great Britain's total wealth $16,890,000,000 $50,000,000,000
France's total wealth 10,645,000,000 40,000,000,000
Germany's total wealth 10,700,000,000 35,000,000,000
United States' total wealth 5,000,000,000 72,000,000,000

 That the reader may have an idea as to how statisticians
arrive at their conclusions on so vast a subject, we give the
following as an approximate classified estimate of the
wealth of the United States:

 <282> 

Real estate in cities and towns.................$15,500,000,000
Real estate other than of cities and towns...... 12,500,000,000
Personal property (not hereafter specified)..... 8,200,000,000
Railroads and their equipments.................. 8,000,000,000
Capital invested in manufactures................ 5,300,000,000
Manufactured goods.............................. 5,000,000,000
Productions (including wool).................... 3,500,000,000
Property owned and money invested in 
foreign countries............................. 3,100,000,000
Public buildings, 
arsenals, warships, etc....................... 3,000,000,000
Domestic animals on farms....................... 2,480,000,000
Domestic animals in cities and towns............ 1,700,000,000
Money, foreign and domestic coin,
bank notes, etc. ............................... 2,130,000,000
Public lands (at $1.25 per acre)................ 1,000,000,000
Mineral products (all descriptions)............. 590,000,000 

 --------------- 

 Total..............................$72,000,000,000

 It was noted some years ago that the wealth of the United
States was increasing at the rate of forty million dollars per
week, or two billion dollars per year. 

 (The total indebtedness of the people of the United
States, public and private, was then estimated to be twenty
billion dollars.) 

 This heaping together of treasures for the last days, here
noted, relates specially to these United States, but the same
is true of the whole civilized world. Great Britain is per capita 
richer than the United States--the richest nation on earth.
And even in China and Japan there are millionaires of recent
development. The defeat of China in 1894 by the
Japanese is charged as chiefly due to the avarice of the government
officers, who are said to have supplied inferior and
even imitation cannon and cannon-balls, although paid a
large price for the genuine.

 <283> 

 Of course only a minority of those who seek wealth find
it. The rush and strife for wealth is not always rewarded.
The bane of selfishness extends far beyond the successful,
and, as the Apostle said, "They that will be rich [who are
determined to be rich at all hazards] fall into temptation
and a snare, and into many foolish and hurtful desires
which drown men in destruction and perdition; for the love 
of money [wealth] is a root of all evil." (`1 Tim. 6:9,10`) The
majority, inexperienced, take the risks and find disappointment
and loss: the few, worldly-wise and keen, take
few risks and reap most of the gains. Thus, for instance, the
"South-African gold fever" which once spread over Great
Britain, France and Germany, actually transferred from
the pockets and bank accounts of the middle class to those
of the wealthy capitalists and bankers, who take little risk,
hundreds of millions of dollars. The result was undoubtedly
a great loss to said middle class so anxious for sudden riches
that they risk their all. The tendency of this is to make
many of this usually conservative class discontented and
ready in a few years for any Socialistic scheme which promises
to be to their advantage.

 The Increase of Poverty

 But is it true that there are poor and needy people in this
land of plenty, in which so many are heaping together such
fabulous wealth? Is it not his or her own fault if any healthy
man or woman cannot get along comfortably? Would it not
tend to cultivate pauperism and dependence if the "well-to-do"
should undertake to paddle the canoes of the poorer
classes? Thus the subject is regarded by many of the
wealthy, who in many instances were poor themselves
twenty-five years ago, and who remember that then all who
were able and willing to work could find plenty to do. They
do not realize what great changes have taken place since

 <284> 

then, and that while their fortunes have improved wonderfully,
the condition of the masses has retrograded, especially
during the last seven years. True, wages, at the
present moment, are generally fair, being maintained by
Unions, etc.; but many cannot obtain work, while many of
those who have situations have work only about half time,
and often less, and are barely able by strict economy to live
decently and honestly. 

 When special depressions come, as in 1893-6, many of
these out of work are thrown upon the charity of their
friends who are illy able to sustain this additional pressure;
and those who have no friends are forced upon public charities,
which at such times are wholly inadequate. 

 The depression of 1893 passed like a wave over the whole
world, and its heavy pressure is still widely felt; though to
some a breathing spell of recuperation has come. But, as the
Scriptures point out, this trouble comes in waves or
spasms--"as travail upon a woman" (`1 Thess. 5:3`)--and
each succeeding spasm will probably be more severe--until
the final one. The wealthy and comfortable often find it difficult
to realize the destitution of the poorest class, which is
rapidly becoming more numerous. The fact is that even
among those of the middle and wealthy classes who do
think and feel for the distresses of the very poor there is the
realization of the utter impossibility of so changing the
present social order as to bring any permanent relief to
them; and so each does what little he thinks to be his ability
and duty for those nearest to him, and tries to discredit or
forget the reports of misery which reach his eyes and ears. 

 The following extracts from the daily press will call to
mind the conditions which obtained in 1893, and which before
very long will probably be duplicated with interest.
 The California Advocate said:

 <285> 

 "The assembling of the unemployed masses in our great
cities in multitudinous thousands is a most gruesome spectacle,
and their piteous cry for work or bread is being heard
all over the land. It is the old unsolved problem of poverty,
intensified by the unprecedented depression of business. Involuntary
idleness is a constantly growing evil coincident
with civilization. It is the dark shadow that steadily creeps
after civilization, increasing in dimensions and intensity as
civilization advances. Things are certainly in an abnormal
condition when men are willing to work, want to work, and
yet cannot find work to do, while their very life depends
upon work. There is no truth in the old saying that 'the
world owes every man a living.' But it is true that the world
owes every man a chance to earn his living. Many theories
have been advanced and many efforts have been made to
secure inalienable 'right to work' to every one willing to
work; but all such attempts have hitherto ended in gloomy
failure. He will indeed be a benefactor to mankind who
shall successfully solve the problem how to secure to every
willing worker some work to do, and thus rid mankind of
the curse of involuntary idleness." 

 Another account describes how, in Chicago, a crowd of
over four hundred unemployed men marched through the
downtown streets, headed by one of their number carrying
a pasteboard sign on which was scrawled the grim legend,
"We Want Work." The next day they marched with many
banners bearing the following inscriptions: "Live and Let
Live," "We Want a Chance to Support Our Families."
"Work or Bread," etc. An army of unemployed marched
through San Francisco with banners on which were inscribed,
"Thousands of Houses to Rent, and Thousands of
People Homeless," "Hungry and Destitute," "Driven by
the Lash of Hunger to Beg," "Get Off Our Backs and We
Will Help Ourselves," etc. 

 Another clipping read:

 <286> 

 "NEWARK, N.J., August 21--Unemployed workingmen
held a large parade today. At the head of the line marched
a man with a large black flag, upon which in white letters
were the words: 'Signs of the Times--I Am Starving Because
He is Fat.' Beneath was a picture of a large, well-fed
man with a high hat, and beside him a starving workman." 

 Another journal, referring to the English coal-miners'
strike, said: 

 "The stories of actual distress, and even of starvation , are multiplying
painfully throughout England, and the cessation
of industries and the derangement of railways are assuming
proportions of grave national calamity...As might be expected,
the real cause consists in the huge royalties that lessees
have to pay for the ground to the landlords from whom
they lease the mines. A considerable number of millionaires,
whose coal royalties hang like millstones around the
neck of the mining industries, are also prominent peers, and
angry public consciousness puts the two things together
with a snap...Radical papers are compiling portentous
lists of lords not unlike the lists of trusts in America, showing
in their figures their monstrous levies on the earnings of
the property of the country. 

 "The cry for bread goes up from the city. It is deeper,
hoarser, broader than it has ever been. It comes from gnawing
stomachs and weakened frames. It comes from men
who tramp the streets searching for work. It comes from
women sitting hopeless in bare rooms. It comes from
children. 

 "In the city of New York the poor have reached straits of
destitution that have never before been known. Probably
no living person understands how awful is the suffering,
how terrible the poverty. No one person can see it all. No
one's imagination can grasp it. 

 "Few persons who will read this can understand what it
means to be without food. It is one of those things so frightful
that it cannot be brought home to them. They say,
'Surely people can get something to eat somewhere, enough
to support life; they can go to their friends.' For the stricken

 <287> 

ones there is no 'somewhere.' Their friends are as destitute
as themselves. There are men so weakened from lack of food
that they cannot work if work is offered to them." 

 An editorial in the San Francisco Examiner said: 

 "How is this? We have so much to eat that the farmers
are complaining that they can get nothing for it. We have
so much to wear that cotton and woolen mills are closing
down because there is nobody to buy their products. We
have so much coal that the railroads that carry it are going
into the hands of receivers. We have so many houses that
the builders are out of work. All the necessities and comforts
of life are as plentiful as ever they were in the most prosperous
years of our history. When the country has enough
food, clothing, fuel and shelter for everybody, why are
times hard? Evidently nature is not to blame. Who or what,
then, is? 

 "The problem of the unemployed is one of the most
serious that face the United States. According to the statistics
collected by Bradstreet's there were at the opening of the
year something over 801,000 wage-earners out of employment
in the first 119 cities of the United States, and the
number of persons dependent upon these for support was
over 2,000,000. If the 119 cities gave a fair average for the
country the total of wage-earners wanting employment on
the first of the year would run above 4,000,000 persons, representing
a dependent population of 10,000,000. As the
unemployed seek the cities it is safe to deduct one-fourth
from these figures. But even with this deduction the number
of wage-workers out of employment is an enormous,
heart-rending total. 

 "The hard road of poverty whose end is pauperism has
been traveled so long in Europe that the authorities of the
Old World know better how to deal with it than the comparatively
prosperous community on this side of the water.
The wages of Europe are so low that in many States the end
of life must be the poorhouse. No amount of industry and
frugality can enable the laborer to lay by a competence for
old age. The margin between income and expenses is so
small that a few days' sickness or lack of employment reduces

 <288> 

the laborer to destitution. Government there has
been forced to deal with it more or less scientifically instead
of in the happy-go-lucky method familiar to America,
where tramps flourish without work and the self-respecting
man who falls into need must suffer hunger." 

 The editor of The Arena says in his CIVILIZATION INFERNO: 

 "The Dead Sea of want is enlarging its borders in every
populous centre. The mutterings of angry discontent grow
more ominous with each succeeding year. Justice denied
the weak through the power of avarice has brought us face
to face with a formidable crisis which may yet be averted if
we have the wisdom to be just and humane; but the problem
cannot longer be sneered at as inconsequential. It is no
longer local; it affects and threatens the entire body politic.
A few years ago one of the most eminent divines in America
declared that there was no poverty to speak of in this Republic.
Today no thoughtful person denies that this problem
is of great magnitude. A short time since I employed a
gentleman in New York to personally investigate the court
records of the city that he might ascertain the exact number
of warrants for evictions issued in twelve months. What was
the result? The records showed the appalling fact that during
the twelve months ending September 1, 1892, twenty-nine
thousand seven hundred and twenty warrants for eviction
were issued in the city of New York. 

 "In a paper in the Forum of December, 1892, by Mr.
Jacob Riis, on the special needs of the poor in New York, he
says: 'For many years it has been true of New York that
one-tenth of all who die in this great and wealthy city are
buried in the pottersfield. Of the 382,530 interments
recorded in the past decade, 37,966 were in the pottersfield,'
and Mr. Riis proceeds to hint at the fact known to all students
of social conditions who personally investigate poverty
in the great cities, that this pottersfield gauge, terribly
significant though it be, is no adequate measure by which
to estimate the poverty problem of a great city. On this
point he continues: 

 "'Those who have had any personal experience with the
poor, and know with what agony of fear they struggle
against this crowning misery, how they plan and plot and

 <289> 

pinch for the poor privilege of being laid to rest in a grave
that is theirs to keep, though in life they never owned a shed
to call their own, will agree with me that it is putting it low
to assume that where one falls, in spite of it all, into this
dread trench, at least two or three must be hovering on the
edge of it. And with this estimate of from twenty to thirty
per cent of our population always struggling to keep the
wolf from the door, with the issue in grievous doubt, all the
known, if scattered, facts of charity management in New
York agree well enough.' 

 "In 1890 there were two hundred and thirty-nine suicides
officially reported in New York City. The court
records are burdened as never before with cases of attempted
self-slaughter. 'You,' said Recorder Smyth, addressing
a poor creature who had sought death by leaping
into the East River, 'are the second case of attempted suicide
that has been up in this court this morning; and,' he
continued, 'I have never known so many attempted suicides
as during the past few months.' 

 "The night is slowly but surely settling around hundreds
and thousands of our people, the night of poverty and despair.
They are conscious of its approach but feel powerless
to check its advance. 'Rents get higher and work cheaper
every year, and what can we do about it?' said a laborer recently
while talking about the outlook. 'I do not see any
way out of it,' he added bitterly, and it must be confessed
that the outlook is dark if no radical economic changes are
at hand, for the supply is yearly increasing far more rapidly
than the demand for labor. 'Ten women for every place no
matter how poor,' is the dispassionate statement of an official
who has recently made the question of female labor a
special study. 'Hundreds of girls,' continues this writer,
'wreck their future every year and destroy their health in
the stuffy, ill-ventilated stores and shops, and yet scores of
recruits arrive from the country and small towns every
week to fill the places vacated.' And let us not imagine that
these conditions are peculiar to New York. What is true of
the metropolis is to a certain extent true of every great city
in America. Within cannon-shot of Beacon Hill, Boston,
where proudly rises the golden dome of the Capitol, are

 <290> 

hundreds of families slowly starving and stifling; families
who are bravely battling for life's barest necessities, while
year by year the conditions are becoming more hopeless,
the struggle for bread fiercer, and the outlook more dismal.
In conversation with one of these toilers, he said, with a certain
pathos and dejection, which indicated hopelessness or
perhaps a deadened perception which prevented his fully
grasping the grim import of his words, 'I once heard of a
man who was put in an iron cage by a tyrant, and every day
he found the walls had come closer and closer to him. At
last the walls came so close together that every day they
squeezed out a part of his life, and somehow,' he said, 'it
seems to me that we are just like that man, and when I see
the little boxes carried out every day, I sometimes say to my
wife, There's a little more life squeezed out; some day we
will go, too.' 

 "I recently visited more than a score of tenement houses
where life was battling with death; where, with a patient
heroism far grander than deeds of daring won amid the
exulting shouts of the battlefield, mothers and daughters
were ceaselessly plying the needle. In several homes I noticed
bedridden invalids whose sunken eyes and emaciated
faces told plainly the story of months, and perhaps years, of
slow starvation amid the squalor, the sickening odor, and
the almost universal filth of the social cellar. Here one becomes
painfully conscious of specters of hunger and fear
ever present. A lifelong dread presses upon the hearts of
these exiles with crushing weight. The landlord, standing
with a writ of dispossession, is continually before their
mind's eye. Dread of sickness haunts every waking moment,
for to them sickness means inability to provide the
scant nourishment which life demands. The despair of the
probable future not infrequently torments their rest. Such
is the common lot of the patient toiler in the slums of our
great cities today. On most of their faces one notes an expression
of gloomy sadness and dumb resignation. 

 "Sometimes a fitful light flashes from cavernous sockets,
a baleful gleam suggesting smouldering fires fed by an ever-present
consciousness of wrongs endured. They feel in a
dumb way that the lot of the beast of the field is happier far
than their fate. Even though they struggle from dawn far

 <291> 

into the night for bread and a wretched room, they know
that the window of hope is closing for them in the great
throbbing centers of Christendom. Sad, indeed, is the
thought that, at the present time, when our land is decked
as never before with stately temples dedicated to the great
Nazarene, who devoted his life to a ministry among the
poor, degraded and outcast, we find the tide of misery rising;
we find uninvited poverty becoming the inevitable fate
of added thousands of lives every year. Never was the altruistic
sentiment more generally upon the lips of man.
Never has the human heart yearned as now for a true manifestation
of human brotherhood. Never has the whole civilized
world been so profoundly moved by the persistent
dream of the ages--the fatherhood of God and the brotherhood
of man. And yet, strange anomaly! The cry of innocence,
of outraged justice, the cry of the millions under
the wheel, rises today from every civilized land as never before.
The voice of Russia mingles with the cry of Ireland.
Outcast London joins with the exiles of all great continental
and American cities in one mighty, earth-thrilling demand
for justice . 

 "In London alone there are more than three hundred
thousand persons on the very brink of the abyss, whose every
heart-beat thrills with fear, whose life-long nightmare is
the dread that the little den they call home may be taken
from them. Beneath them, at the door of starvation, are
over two hundred thousand lives; still further down we find
three hundred thousand in the stratum of the starving, in
the realm where hunger gnaws night and day, where every
second of every minute, of every hour of every day, is
crowded with agony. Below the starving are the homeless--
they who have nothing with which to procure a lodging
even in the worst quarters; they who sleep without shelter
the year round, hundreds of whom may be found any night
on the cold stone slabs along the Thames embankment.
Some have a newspaper between themselves and the damp
stones, but the majority do not even enjoy this luxury! This
army of absolutely homeless in London numbers thirty-three
thousand." 

 Does some one say, This is an overdrawn picture? Let
him investigate. If it is but one-half true, it is deplorable!

 <292> 

 Discontent, Hatred, Friction Preparing Rapidly 

 for Social Combustion

 However it may be explained to the poor that the
wealthy never were so charitable as now, that society has
more ample provision now than ever before for the poor,
the blind, the sick and the helpless, and that immense revenues
are raised annually by taxation, for the maintenance
of these benefactions, this will surely not satisfy the workingman.
As a self-respecting, intelligent citizen it is not alms
that he wants; he has no desire to avail himself of the privileges
of the poorhouse or when sick to become a charity
patient in a hospital; but he does want a chance honestly
and decently to earn his bread by the sweat of his face and
with the dignity of an honest toiler to maintain his family.
But, while he sees himself and his neighbor workmen more
dependent than ever upon favor and influence to get and
keep a job of work, and the small storekeepers, small
builders and small manufacturers struggling harder than
ever for an honest living, he reads of the prosperity of the
rich, the growing number of millionaires, the combines of
capital to control the various industries--the copper business,
the steel business, the glass business, the oil business,
the match business, the paper business, the coal business,
the paint business, the cutlery business, the telegraph business,
and every other business. He sees also that these combinations
control the machinery of the world, and that
thus, while his labor is depreciating by reason of competition,
goods and necessities may be advanced, or at least
hindered from declining in proportion to the reduced cost
of labor represented in improved machinery displacing human
brain and muscle. 

 Under such circumstances can we wonder that at the
thirteenth annual convention of the Federation of Labor at
Chicago, the Vice President of the Trades Assembly welcomed

 <293> 

the visitors in the following sarcastic language? He
said: 

 "We would wish to bid you welcome to a prosperous city,
but truth will not justify the assertion. Things are here as
they are, but not as they should be. We bid you welcome in
the name of a hundred monopolists, and of fifty thousand
tramps, here where mammon holds high carnival in palaces,
while mothers are heartbroken, children are starving,
and men are looking in vain for work. We bid you welcome
in the name of a hundred thousand idle men, in the name
of those edifices dedicated to the glory of God, but whose
doors are closed at night to the starving and poor; in the
name of the ministers who fatten from the vineyards of
God, forgetting that God's children are hungry and have
no place to lay their heads; in the name of the pillars of the
sweating system, of the millionaires and deacons, whose
souls are endangered by their appetite for gold; in the name
of the wage-workers who sweat blood which is coined into
golden ducats; in the name of the insane asylums and poorhouses,
packed by people crazed by care in this land of
plenty. 

 "We will show you exhibits of Chicago that were not
shown at the fair ground--of her greatness and her weakness.
Tonight we will show you hundreds of men lying on
the rough stones in the corridors of this very building--no
home, no food--men able and willing to work, but for
whom there is no work. It is a time for alarm--alarm for the
continuation of a government whose sovereign rights are
delivered to railway magnates, coal barons and speculators;
alarm for the continuation of a federal government
whose financial policies are manufactured in Wall Street at
the dictation of money barons of Europe. We expect you to
take measures to utilize the franchise and to hurl from
power the unfaithful servants of the people who are responsible
for existing conditions." 

 This speaker no doubt errs greatly in supposing that a
change of office holders or of parties would cure existing
evils; but it surely would be vain to tell him or any other
sane man that there is nothing the matter with the social

 <294> 

arrangement which makes possible such wide extremes of
wealth and poverty. However much people may differ as to
the cause and the cure, all are agreed that there is a malady.
Some are fruitlessly seeking remedies in wrong directions,
and many, alas! do not want that a remedy shall be found;
not until they, at least, have had a chance to profit by present
conditions. 

 In harmony with this thought, George E. McNeill, in an
address before the World's Labor Congress, said: 

 "The labor movement is born of hunger--hunger for
food, for shelter, warmth, clothing and pleasure. In the
movement of humanity toward happiness each individual
seeks his ideal, often with stoical disregard of others. The
industrial system rests upon the devil's iron rule of every
man for himself. Is it an unexplainable phenomenon that
those who suffer most under this rule of selfishness and
greed should organize for the overthrow of the devil's system
of government?" 

 The newspapers abound with descriptions of fashionable
weddings, balls and banquets at which the so-called "upper
crust" of society appear in costly robes and rare jewels. One
lady at a ball in Paris, recently, it is said, wore $1,600,000
worth of diamonds. The New York World in August 1896
gave a picture of an American lady arrayed in diamonds
and other jewels valued at $1,000,000; and she does not belong
to the very uppermost social strata either. The daily
press tell of the lavish expenditure of thousands of dollars in
providing these banquets--for choice wines, floral decorations,
etc. They tell of the palaces erected for the rich, many
of them costing $50,000, and some as much as $1,500,000.
They tell of "Dog Socials" at which brutes are fed on
dainties at great expense, tended by their "nurses." They
tell of $10,000 paid for a dessert service, $6,000 for two artistic
flower-jars, $50,000 for two rose-colored vases. They
tell that an English duke paid $350,000 for a horse. They

 <295> 

tell how a Boston woman buried her husband in a coffin
costing $50,000. They tell that another "lady" expended
$5,000 in burying a pet poodle dog. They tell that New
York millionaires pay as high as $800,000 for a single
yacht. 

 Can we wonder that many are envious, and some angry
and embittered, when they contrast such wastefulness with
their own family's penury, or at least enforced economy?
Knowing that not many are "new creatures" who set their
affections on things above and not on earthly things, and
who have learned that "godliness with contentment is great
gain" while they wait until the Lord shall vindicate their
cause, we cannot wonder that such matters awaken in the
hearts of the masses feelings of envy, hatred, malice, strife;
and these feelings will ripen into open revolt which will ultimately
work all the works of the flesh and the devil, during
the great trouble-time impending. 

 "Behold, this was the iniquity of...Sodom--pride, fulness
of bread and abundance of idleness was in her... neither
did she strengthen the hand of the poor and needy ," etc.
`Ezek. 16:49,50` 

 The California Christian Advocate , commenting upon one
of the fashionable balls of New York City, says: 

 "The lavish luxury and dazzling extravagance displayed
by the wealthy Greeks and Romans of 'ye olden times' is a
matter of history. Such reckless display is beginning to
make its appearance in what is called fashionable society in
this country. One of our exchanges tells of a New York lady
who spent $125,000 in a single season in entertaining. The
character and value of the entertainments may be judged
from the fact that she taught society how...to freeze Roman
punch in the heart of crimson and yellow tulips, and
how to eat terrapin with gold spoons out of silver canoes.
Other entertainers decked their tables with costly roses,
while one of 'the four hundred' is said to have spent $50,000
on a single entertainment. Such lavish expenditure to such

 <296> 

poor purpose is sinful and shameful, no matter how large a
fortune one may possess." 

 Messiah's Herald commented as follows: 

 "One hundred and forty-four social autocrats, headed by
an aristocrat, held a great ball. Royalty never eclipsed it. It
was intensely exclusive. Wine flowed like water. Beauty lent
her charms. Neither Mark Antony nor Cleopatra ever
rolled in such gorgeousness. It was a collection of millionaires.
The wealth of the world was drained for pearls and
diamonds. Necklaces of gems costing $200,000 and downward
emblazoned scores of necks. The dance went on amid
Aladdin splendors. Joy was unconfined. While it was going
on, says a journal, 100,000 starving miners in Pennsylvania
were scouring the roads like cattle in search of forage, some
of them living on cats, and not a few committing suicide to
avoid seeing their children starve. Yet one necklace from
the Metropolitan ball would have rescued all these from
hunger. It was one of the 'great social events' of a nation
called Christian; but what a contrast! And there is no remedy
for it. Thus it will be 'til he come.'" 

 "Till he come?" Nay, rather, "Thus shall it be in the days 
of the Son of Man," when he has come, while he is gathering
his elect to himself, and thus setting up his Kingdom,
whose inauguration will be followed by the "dashing" of
the present social system to pieces in a great time of trouble
and anarchy, preparatory to the establishment of the
Kingdom of righteousness. (`Rev. 2:26,27; 19:15`) As it
was in the days of Lot, so shall it be in the days of the Son
of Man. As it was in the days of Noah, so shall it be in the
[parousia] presence of the Son of Man. `Matt. 24:37`;
`Luke 17:26,28`

 Are the Rich Too Severely Condemned?

 We quote from an editorial in the San Francisco
 Examiner : 

 "Mr. W. K. Vanderbilt's huge British steam yacht Valiante
has joined Mr. F. W. Vanderbilt's British steam yacht

 <297> 

Conqueror in New York Harbor. The Valiante cost
$800,000. This represents the profits on a crop of about
15,000,000 bushels of sixty-cent wheat, or the entire product
of at least 8,000 160-acre farms. In other words, 8,000
farmers, representing 40,000 men, women and children,
worked through sun and storm to enable Mr. Vanderbilt to
have built in a foreign shipyard such a pleasure craft as no
sovereign in Europe possesses. The construction of that vessel
required the labor of at least 1,000 mechanics for a year.
The money she cost, put in circulation among our workmen,
would have had a perceptible influence upon the state
of times in some quarters." 

 J. R. Buchanan in the Arena , speaking of the heartless extravagance
of the wealthy, said: 

 "Its criminality is not so much in the heartless motive as
in its wanton destruction of happiness and life to achieve a
selfish purpose. That squandering wealth in ostentation
and luxury is a crime becomes very apparent by a close examination
of the act. There would be no harm in building a
$700,000 stable for his horses, like a Syracuse millionaire, or
in placing a $50,000 service on the dinner table, like a New
York Astor, if money were as free as air and water; but every
dollar represents an average day's labor. Hence the
$700,000 stable represents the labor of 1,000 men for two
years and four months. It also represents 700 lives; for
$1,000 would meet the cost of the first ten years of a child,
and the cost of the second ten years would be fully repaid
by his labor. The fancy stable, therefore, represents the
physical basis of 700 lives, and affirms that the owner values
it more highly, or is willing that 700 should die that his
vanity might be gratified." 

 The Literary Digest said editorially: 

 "Not long since a New England clergyman addressed a
letter to Mr. Samuel Gompers, President of the American
Federation of Labor, asking him to state why, in his opinion,
so many intelligent workingmen do not attend church.
In reply Mr. Gompers said that one reason is that the
churches are no longer in touch with the hopes and aspirations
of workingmen, and are out of sympathy with their

 <298> 

miseries and burdens. The pastors either do not know, he
said, or have not the courage to declare from their pulpits,
the rights and wrongs of the toiling millions. The organizations
found most effective in securing improved conditions
have been frowned upon by the church. Laborers have had
their attention directed to 'the sweet by and by,' to the utter
neglect of the conditions arising from 'the bitter now and
now.' The church and the ministry have been the 'apologists
and defenders of the wrongs committed against the interests
of the people, simply because the perpetrators are the
possessors of wealth.' Asked as to the means he would suggest
for a reconciliation of the church and the masses, Mr.
Gompers recommends 'a complete reversal of the present
attitude.' He closes with these words: 'He who fails to sympathize
with the movement of labor, he who complacently
or indifferently contemplates the awful results of present
economic and social conditions, is not only the opponent of
the best interests of the human family, but is particeps criminis 
to all wrongs inflicted upon the men and women of our
time, the children of today, the manhood and womanhood
of the future.'" 

 While we thus note public opinion in condemnation of
the rich as a class, and while we note also the Lord's condemnation
and foretold penalty of this class as a whole, it is
but reasonable that God's people should exercise moderation
in their judgment or opinions of the rich as individuals. The
Lord, whose judgment against the class is so severe, will nevertheless
be merciful to them as individuals; and when in his
wisdom he has destroyed their idols of silver and gold, and
brought down their high looks, and humbled their pride, he
will then be gracious to comfort and to heal such as renounce
their selfishness and pride. It will be noted also, that
we have quoted only the reasonable and moderate expressions
of sensible writers and not the extreme and often nonsensical
diatribes of anarchists and visionaries. 

 As an aid to cool moderation in judgment it is well for us
to remember (1) That the term "rich" is a very broad one,

 <299> 

and includes not only the immensely wealthy, but in many
minds those who, compared with these, might be considered
poor; (2) That among those whom the very poor
would term rich are very many of the best and most benevolent
people, many of whom are, to a considerable extent,
active in benevolent and philanthropic enterprises;
and if they are not all so to the extent of self-sacrifice, it
would certainly be with bad grace that any who have not
made themselves living sacrifices for the blessing of others
should condemn them for not doing so. And those who
have done so know how to appreciate every approach to
such a spirit that any, whether rich or poor, may manifest. 

 It is well to remember that many of the rich not only
justly pay heavy taxes for public free schools, for the support
of the government, for the support of public charities,
etc., but also cheerfully contribute otherwise to the relief of
the poor, and are heartily benevolent to asylums, colleges,
hospitals, etc., and to the churches they esteem most worthy.
And those who do these things out of good and honest
hearts, and not (as we must admit is sometimes the case) for
show and praise of men, will not lose their reward. And all
such should be justly esteemed. 

 Everyone is able and willing to criticize the millionaires,
but in some cases we fear the judgment is too severe. We
therefore urge that our readers do not think too uncharitably
of them. Remember that they as well as the poor are
in some respects under the control of the present social system.
Custom has fixed laws and barricades around their
heads and hearts. False conceptions of Christianity, endorsed
by the whole world--rich and poor--for centuries,
have worn deeply the grooves of thought and reason in
which their minds travel to and fro. They feel that they
must do as other men do; that is, they must use their time
and talents to their best ability and on "business principles."
Doing this, the money rolls in on them, because

 <300> 

money and machinery are today the creators of wealth, labor
being at a discount. 

 Then they no doubt reason that having the wealth it is
their duty not to hoard it all, but to spend some of it. They
perhaps question whether it would be better to dispense it
as charity or to let it circulate through the avenues of trade,
and wages for labor. They properly conclude that the latter
would be the better plan. Balls, banquets, weddings, yachts,
etc., may strike them as being pleasures to themselves and
their friends and an assistance to their less fortunate neighbors .
And is there not some truth in that view? The ten thousand
dollar banquet, for instance, starts probably fifteen thousand
dollars into circulation--through butchers, bakers,
florists, tailors, dressmakers, jewelers, etc., etc. The $800,000
yacht, while a great personal extravagance, caused a circulation
of that amount of money amongst workingmen
somewhere; and more, it will mean an annual expenditure
of at the very least twenty and quite possibly one hundred
thousand dollars for officers, engineers, sailors, victuals,
etc., and other running expenses. 

 Under present wrong conditions , therefore, it is extremely
fortunate for the middle and poorest classes that the
wealthy are "foolishly extravagant," rather than miserly;
spending lavishly a portion of the flood of wealth rolling
into their coffers; for diamonds, for instance, which require
"digging," polishing and mounting and thus give employment
to thousands who would only add to the number out
of work if the wealthy had no foibles or extravagances, but
hoarded all they got possession of. Reasoning thus, the rich
may actually consider their extravagances as "charities."
And if they do, they but follow the same course of false reasoning 
taken by some of the middle class, when they get up
"church sociables" and fairs and festivals "for sweet charity's
sake."

 <301> 

 We are not justifying their course: we are merely seeking
to point out that the extravagances of the rich in times of
financial distress do not of necessity imply that they are devoid 
of feeling for the poor. And when they think of doing
charity on any other than "business principles," no doubt
they reflect that it would require a small army of men and
women to superintend the distribution of their daily increase
and that they could not feel sure that it would reach
the most needy anyway; because selfishness is so general
that few could be trusted to dispense large quantities honestly.
A millionairess remarked that she never looked from
the windows of her carriage when passing through the
poorer quarters, because it offended her eye. We wonder if
it was not also because her conscience was pricked by the
contrast between her condition and that of the poor. As for
seeing to charities themselves--the men are too busy attending
their investments and the women are too refined for
such things: they would see unpleasant sights, hear unpleasant
sounds and sense unpleasant odors. When poorer
they may have coveted such opportunities for good as they
now possess: but selfishness and pride and social engagements
and ethics offset the nobler sentiments and prevent
much fruit. As some one has said, It was because our Lord
went about doing good that he was touched with a feeling of
man's infirmities. 

 In making these suggestions for the measure of consolation
they may afford to the poorer classes, we would not
be understood as in any sense justifying the selfish extravagance
of the rich, which is wrong; and which the Lord condemns
as wrong. (`Jas. 5:5`) But in consideration of these
various sides of these vexed questions the mind is kept balanced,
the judgment more sound, and the sympathies more
tender toward those whom "the god of this world" has
blinded with his riches, until their judgments are perverted

 <302> 

from justice, and who are about to receive so severe a reprimand
and chastisement from the Lord. The "god of this
world" also blinds the poor upon some questions, to justify
a wrong course. He is thus leading both sides into the great
"battle." 

 But although we may find pleas upon which to base some
apologies for present augmentations of wealth in the hands
of the few; although we may realize that some of the rich,
especially of the moderately rich, are very benevolent; and
although the contention may be true that they gain their
wealth under the operation of the very same laws that govern
all, and that some of the poor are less generous naturally,
and less disposed to be just than some of the rich, and
that if places were changed they would often prove more
exacting and tyrannical than the rich, yet, nevertheless, the
Lord declares that the possessors of wealth are about to be
called into judgment on this score, because, when they discerned
the tendency of affairs, they did not seek at their
own cost a plan more equitable, more generous, than the
usage of today; as, for instance, along the lines of Socialism. 

 As showing the views of increasingly large numbers of
people in reference to the duty of society to either leave free
to all the opportunities and riches of nature (earth, air and
water) or else if these be monopolized to provide opportunity
for daily labor for those who have no share in the monopolies,
we quote the following from an exchange. It says: 

 "A more pathetic incident in real life is seldom told in
print than the following, which is vouched for by a kindergarten
teacher who resides in Brooklyn, N. Y. 

 "A little girl who attends a kindergarten on the east side,
the poorest district in New York City, came to the school
one morning recently, thinly clad and looking pinched and
cold. After being in the warm kindergarten a while the
child looked up into the teacher's face and said earnestly:

 <303> 

 "'Miss C------, Do you love God?' 

 "'Why, yes,' said the teacher. 

 "'Well, I don't,' quickly responded the child with great
earnestness and vehemence, 'I hate him.' 

 "The teacher, thinking this a strange expression to come
from a child whom she had tried hard to teach that it was
right to love God asked for an explanation. 

 "'Well,' said the child, 'he makes the wind blow, and I
haven't any warm clothes; and he makes it snow, and my
shoes have holes in them, and he makes it cold, and we
haven't any fire at home, and he makes us hungry, and
mamma hadn't any bread for our breakfast.'" 

 Commenting it says: "If we consider the perfection of
God's material bounties to the children of earth, it is hard,
after reading this story, to regard with patience the complacency
of rich blasphemers who, like the innocent little
girl, charge the miseries of poverty to God." 

 However, not much is to be expected of the worldly; for
selfishness is the spirit of the world. We have more reason to
look to great and wealthy men who profess to be Christians.
Yet these lay neither their lives nor their wealth upon God's
altar in the service of the gospel, nor yet give them in the
service of humanity's temporal welfare. Of course, the gospel
is first! It should have our all of time, talent, influence
and means. But where it is hidden from view and does not
have control of the heart by reason of false conceptions,
from false teachings, the consecrated heart will surely find
plenty to do for fallen fellow-creatures, along the lines of
temperance work, social uplifting, municipal reform, etc.
And indeed quite a few are so engaged, but generally of the
poor or the middle class; few rich, few millionaires. If some
of the world's millionaires possessed that much of the spirit
of Christ and were to bend their mental and financial talents,
their own time, and the time of capable helpers who

 <304> 

would be glad to assist if the door of opportunity were
opened to them, what a social reform the world would witness
in one year! How the public franchises granted to corporations
and trusts would be restricted or reclaimed in the
public interest; vicious laws would be amended and in general
the interests of the public be considered and guarded,
and financial and political ringsters be rendered less powerful,
as against the interests of the public. 

 But to expect such a use of wealth is unreasonable; because,
although many rich men profess Christianity, they,
like the remainder of the world, know nothing about true
Christianity--faith in Christ as a personal Redeemer , and full
consecration of every talent to his service. They wish to be
classed as "Christians," because they do not wish to be
classed as "heathen" or "Jews"; because the name of Christ
is popular now, even if his real teachings are no more popular
than when he was crucified. 

 Truly, God's Word testifies that not many great or rich or
wise hath God chosen to be heirs of the Kingdom; but
chiefly the poor and despised according to the course and
wisdom and estimate of this world. How hardly (with what
difficulty) shall they that have riches enter into the Kingdom
of God. It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of
a needle than for a rich man to enter the Kingdom of
heaven.* `Matt. 19:23,24` 

 But alas! "the poor rich" will pass through terrible experiences.
----------
*It is said that the "Needle's Eye" was the name of a small gateway in the
walls of ancient cities, used after sundown, when the larger gates had
been closed, for fear of attacks by enemies. They are described as being so
small that a camel could pass through only on his knees, after his load
had been removed. The illustration would seem to imply that a rich man
would needs unload and kneel before he could make his calling and election
sure to a place in the Kingdom.

 <305> 

Not only will wealth prove an obstacle to future
honor and glory in God's Kingdom, but even here its advantages
will be shortlived. "Go to now, ye rich men , weep
and howl for the misery that shall come upon you...Ye
have heaped treasure together for the last days." The weeping
and howling of the rich will be heard shortly; and the
knowledge of this should remove all envy and covetousness
from all hearts, and fill them instead with sympathy for the
"poor rich"; a sympathy which nevertheless would not either
strive or desire to alter the Lord's judgment, recognizing
his wisdom and goodness, and that the result of the weeping
and howling will be a correction of heart and an opening of
eyes to justice and love, on the part of all--rich and poor
alike--but severest upon the rich, because their change of
condition will be so much greater and more violent. 

 But why cannot conditions be so altered as gradually to
bring the equalization of wealth and comfort? Because the
world is governed not by the royal law of love but by the
law of depravity--selfishness.

 Selfishness in Combination with Liberty

 Christian doctrines promote liberty , and liberty leads to
and grasps knowledge and education. But liberty and
knowledge are dangerous to human welfare, except under
obedience to the letter and spirit of the royal law of love.
Hence "Christendom," having accepted Christian liberty
and gained knowledge, without having adopted Christ's
law, but having instead grafted its knowledge and liberty
upon the fallen, selfish disposition, has merely learned the
better how to exercise its selfishness. As a result, Christendom
is the most discontented portion of the earth today;
and other nations share the discontent and its injury proportionately
as they adopt the knowledge and liberty of

 <306> 

Christianity without adopting the spirit of Christ, the spirit
of love. 

 The Bible, the Old Testament as well as the New, has fostered
the spirit of liberty --not directly, but indirectly. The
Law indeed provided that servants be subject to their masters,
but it also restricted the masters in the interests of the
servants, assuring them that injustice would certainly be
recompensed by the great Master of all--Jehovah. The Gospel,
the New Testament, also does the same. (See `Col. 3:22-25; 4:1`.)
But the Bible assures all that while men differ in
mental, moral and physical powers, God has made provision
for a full restitution--that, by faith in Christ, rich and
poor, bond and free, male and female, wise and unwise,
may all return to divine favor, on a common level--"accepted
in the Beloved." 

 It is not surprising, then, that the Jews of old were a liberty-loving
people, and had the name of a rebellious race--
not willing to stay conquered, so that their conquerors concluded
that there was no other way to subjugate them than
to utterly destroy them as a nation. Nor is it surprising that
able statesmen (even those not Christian) have conceded
that "the Bible is the corner-stone of our liberties," and that
experience proves that, wherever the Bible has gone, liberty 
has gone; carrying with it education and generally loftier
sentiments. It was so during the first two centuries of the
Christian era: then error (priest-craft and superstition) obtained
control, the Bible was ignored or suppressed, and instead
of further progress, Papacy's policy brought on the
"Dark Ages." With the revival of the Bible as a public instructor,
in the English and German Reformations, liberty,
knowledge and progress again appeared amongst the
people. It is an incontrovertible fact that the lands which
have the Bible have the most liberty and general enlightenment,

 <307> 

and that in the lands in which the Bible is freest,
the people are freest, most enlightened, most generally educated,
and making the most rapid strides of progress in every
direction. 

 But now notice what we observed above, that the enlightening
and freeing influences of the Bible have been accepted
by Christendom while its law of love (the law of
perfect liberty --`Jas. 1:25`) has been generally ignored. Thinking
people are just awaking to the fact that knowledge and
liberty united constitute a mighty power which may be
exerted for either good or evil; that if, as a lever, they move
upon the fulcrum of love the results will be powerful for
good; but that when they move upon the fulcrum of selfishness
the results are evil--powerful and far reaching evil.
This is the condition which confronts Christendom today,
and which is now rapidly preparing the social elements for
the "fire" of "the day of vengeance" and recompenses. 

 In chemistry it is frequently found that some useful and
beneficial elements suddenly become rank poison by the
change of proportions. So it is with the blessings of knowledge
and liberty when compounded with selfishness. In certain
proportions this combination has rendered valuable
service to humanity, but the recent great increase of knowledge
instead of exalting knowledge to the seat of power, has
enthroned selfishness. Selfishness dominates, and uses
knowledge and liberty as its servants. This combination is
now ruling the world; and even its valuable elements are
rendered enemies of righteousness and peace by reason of
selfishness being in control. Under these conditions knowledge
as the servant of selfishness is most active in serving
selfish interests, and liberty controlled by selfishness threatens
to become self-license, regardless of the rights and liberties
of others. Under present conditions therefore,

 <308> 

selfishness (controlling), knowledge and liberty constitute a
Triumvirate of evil power which is now ruling and crushing
Christendom--through its agents and representatives, the
wealthy and influential class: and it will be none the less the
same Evil Triumvirate when shortly it shall change its servants
and representatives and accept as such the masses. 

 All in civilized lands--rich and poor, learned and unlearned,
wise and foolish, male and female--(with rare exceptions)
are moved to almost every act of life by this
powerful combination. They beget in all their subjects a
frenzy for place, power and advantage, for self-aggrandizement.
The few saints, whose aims are for the present and
future good of others, constitute so small a minority as to be
scarcely worthy of consideration as a factor in the present
time. They will be powerless to effect the good they long for
until, glorified with their Lord and Master, they shall be
both qualified and empowered to bless the world as God's
Kingdom. And while they are in the flesh they will still
have need to watch and pray lest even their higher knowledge
and higher liberty become evils by coming under the
domination of selfishness.

 Independence As Viewed by the Rich and 

 by the Poor

 The masses of the world have but recently stepped from
slavery and serfdom into liberty and independence. Knowledge
broke the shackles, personal and political, forcibly:
political equality was not granted willingly, but inch by
inch under compulsion. And the world of political equals is
now dividing along lines of pride and selfishness, and a new
battle has begun on the part of the rich and well-to-do for
the maintenance and increase of their wealth and power,
and on the part of the lower classes for the right to labor

 <309> 

and enjoy the moderate comforts of life. (See `Amos 8:4-8`.)
Many of the wealthy are disposed to think and feel toward
the poorer classes thus: Well, finally the masses have got the
ballot and independence. Much good may it do them!
They will find, however, that brains are an important factor
in all of life's affairs, and the brains are chiefly with the
aristocracy. Our only concern is that they use their liberty
moderately and lawfully; we are relieved thereby from
much responsibility. Formerly, when the masses were serfs,
every lord, noble and duke felt some responsibility for those
under his care; but now we are free to look out merely for
our own pleasures and fortunes. Their independence is all
the better for us; every "gentleman" is benefited by the
change, and hopes the same for the people, who of course
will do the best they can do for their own welfare while we
do for ours. In making themselves political equals and independents,
they changed our relationship--they are now our
equals legally, and hence our competitors instead of our proteges;
but they will learn by and by that political equality
does not make men physically or intellectually equal: the
result will be aristocracy of brains and wealth instead of the
former aristocracy of heredity. 

 Some of the so-called "under crust" of society thoughtlessly
answer: We accept the situation; we are independent
and abundantly able to take care of ourselves. Take heed
lest we outwit you. Life is a war for wealth and we have
numbers on our side; we will organize strikes and boycotts,
and will have our way. 

 If the premise be accepted, that all men are independent
of each other, and that each should selfishly do the best he
can for his own interest, regardless of the interests and welfare
of others, then the antagonistic wealth-war views
above suggested could not be objected to. And surely it is

 <310> 

upon this principle of selfishness and independence that all
classes seem to be acting, more and more. Capitalists look
out for their own interests, and usually (though there are
noble exceptions) they pay as little as possible for labor.
And mechanics and laborers also (with noble exceptions)
look out for themselves merely, to get as much as possible
for their services. How then can either class consistently
find fault with the other, while both acknowledge the same
principles of independence, selfishness and force? 

 This has become so largely the public view that the old
custom for those of superior education, talents and other
advantages to visit the poor and assist them with advice or
substantials has died out; and now each attends to his own
concerns and leaves the others, independent, to take care of
themselves, or often to the generous public provisions--asylums,
hospitals, "homes," etc. This may be favorable to
some and in some respects, but it is apt to bring difficulties
to others and in other respects--through inexperience,
improvidence, wastefulness, indolence, imbecility and
misfortune. 

 The fact is that neither the rich nor the poor can afford to
be selfishly independent of one another; nor should they feel
or act as though they were. Mankind is one family: God
"hath made of one blood all nations of men." (`Acts 17:26`)
Each member of the human family is a human brother to every
other human being. All are children of the one father,
Adam, a son of God (`Luke 3:38`), to whose joint-care the
earth with its fulness was committed by God as a stewardship.
All are therefore beneficiaries of the divine provision;
for still "the earth is the Lord's and the fulness thereof."
The fall into sin, and its penalty, death, accomplished by a
gradual decline--physical, mental and moral--has left all
men more or less impaired, and each needs and should have
the others' sympathy and aid in proportion to the degree of 

 <311> 

 his impairment and consequent dependence , mental, moral and
physical. 

 If love were the controlling motive in the hearts of all
men each would delight to do his part for the common welfare,
and all would be on an equality as respects the common
necessities and some of the comforts of life. This would
imply a measure of Socialism. But love is not the controlling
motive amongst men, and consequently such a
plan cannot operate now. Selfishness is the controlling principle,
not only with the major part of, but with nearly all
Christendom, and is bearing its own bitter fruit and ripening
it now rapidly for the great vintage of `Revelation 14:19,20`. 

 Nothing short of (1) a conversion of the world en masse , or
(2) the intervention of superhuman power, could now
change the course of the world from the channel of selfishness
to that of love. Such a conversion is not dreamed of
even by the most sanguine; for while nominal Christianity
has succeeded in outwardly converting comparatively few
of earth's billions, true conversions--from the selfish spirit
of the world to the loving, generous spirit of Christ--can be
counted only in small numbers. Hence, hope from this
quarter may as well be abandoned. The only hope is in the
intervention of superhuman power, and just such a change
is what God has promised in and through Christ's Millennial
Kingdom. God foresaw that it would require a thousand
years to banish selfishness and re-establish love in full
control of even the willing; hence the provision for just such
"times of restitution." (`Act 3:21`) Meantime, however, the
few who really appreciate and long for the rule of love can
generally see the impossibility of securing it by earthly
means; because the rich will not give up their advantages
willingly; nor would the masses produce sufficient for
themselves were it not for the stimulus of either necessity or

 <312> 

covetousness, so inherent is selfish ease in some, and selfish,
wasteful luxury and improvidence in others.

 Why Recent Favorable Conditions Cannot 

 Continue

 It may be suggested that the rich and poor have lived together
for six thousand years, and that there is no more
danger of calamity resulting now than in the past; no more
danger that the rich will crush the poor and let them starve,
nor that the poor will destroy the rich through anarchy. But
this is a mistake; there is greater danger than ever before
from both sides. 

 Conditions have greatly changed with the masses since
the days of serfdom; not only the physical, but also the
mental conditions; and now, after a taste of civilization and
education, it would require centuries of gradual oppression
to make them again submit to the old order of things, in
which they were the vassals of the landed nobility. It could
not be done in one century--sooner would they die! The
very suspicion of a tendency toward such a future for their
children would lead to a revolution, and it is this fear which
is helping to goad the poor to stronger protests than ever
before attempted. 

 But it may be asked, Why should we contemplate such a
tendency? Why not suppose a continuance, and even an increase,
of the general prosperity of the past century, and
particularly of the past fifty years? 

 We cannot so suppose, because observation and reflection
show that such expectations would be unreasonable,
indeed impossible, for several reasons. The prosperity of the
present century has been--under divine supervision, `Dan. 12:4`
--directly the result of the mental awakening of the
world, printing, steam, electricity and applied mechanics

 <313> 

being the agencies. The awakening brought increased demands
for necessities and luxuries from increasing numbers.
Coming suddenly, the increase of demand exceeded
the production; and hence wages in general advanced. And
as the supply became equal to and beyond the demands of
the home-markets, other nations, long dormant, also awakened
and demanded supplies. For a time all classes benefited,
and all civilized nations suddenly became much
more wealthy as well as much more comfortable than ever
before; because the manufacture of machinery required
moulders, machinists and carpenters; and these required
the assistance of woodsmen and brick-makers and furnace-builders
and furnace-men; and when the machines were
ready many of them required coal and gave increased demand
for coal-diggers, engineers, firemen, etc. Steamships
and railroads were demanded all over the world, and thousands
of men were promptly employed in building, equipping
and operating them. Thus the ranks of labor were suddenly
called upon, and wages rose proportionately to the
skill demanded. Indirectly still others were benefited as well
as those directly employed; because, as men were better
paid, they ate better food, wore better clothes and lived in
better houses, more comfortably furnished. The farmer not
only was obliged to pay more for the labor he hired, but he
in turn received proportionately more for what he sold; and
thus it was in every branch of industry. So the tanners and
shoemakers, the hosierymakers, clockmakers, jewelers, etc.,
were benefited, because the better the masses were paid the
more they could spend both for necessities and luxuries.
Those who once went barefoot bought shoes; those who
once went stockingless began to consider stockings a necessity;
and thus all branches of trade prospered. All this demand
coming suddenly, a general and quick prosperity was
unavoidable.

 <314> 

 Invention was stimulated by the demand, and it has
pushed one labor-saving device upon another into the factory,
the home, onto the farm, everywhere, until now it is
difficult for any to earn a bare living independent of modern
machinery. All of this, together with commerce with
outside nations, waking up similarly, but later, has kept
things going prosperously for the laboring classes, while making
the merchants and manufacturers of Christendom fabulously
rich. 

 But now we are nearing the end of the lane of prosperity.
Already in many directions the world's supply exceeds the
world's demands, or rather exceeds its financial ability to
gratify its desires. China, India and Japan, after being excellent
customers for the manufactures of Europe and the
United States, are now generally utilizing their own labor
(at six to twelve cents per day) in duplicating what they
have already purchased; and therefore they will demand
less and less proportionately hereafter. The countries of
South America have been pushed faster than their intelligence
warranted, and some of them are already bankrupt
and must economize until they get into better
financial condition. 

 Evidently, therefore, a crisis is approaching; a crisis
which would have culminated sooner than this in Europe
had it not been for the unprecedented prosperity of this
Great Republic, under a protective tariff, which brought
hither for investment millions of European capital, as well
as drew millions of Europe's population to share the benefits
of that prosperity, and which incidentally has produced
giant corporations and trusts which now threaten
the public weal. 

 General prosperity and higher wages came to Europe
also. Not only were Europe's labor ranks relieved, but wars
also relieved the pressure of labor-competition by killing a

 <315> 

million of men in the prime of life, and by a destruction of
goods and a general interruption of labor. And for the past
twenty-five years the constantly increasing standing armies
are relieving Europe of other millions of men for the ranks,
who otherwise would be competitors; besides, consider the
vast numbers employed in preparing military armaments,
guns, warships, etc. 

 If, notwithstanding all these conditions so favorable to
prosperity and demand for labor at good wages, we now
find that the climax has been reached, and that wages are
now rather tending downward, we are warranted in asserting,
from a human standpoint, as well as from the standpoint
of God's revelation, that a crisis is approaching-- the 
crisis of this world's history. 

 It is worthy of note also that while wages have reached an
unprecedented height in recent years, the rise in the prices
of the necessaries of life has more than kept pace with the
increase, thus exercising more than a counter-balancing influence.
What will be the result? and how long must we
wait for it? 

 The collapse will come with a rush. Just as the sailor who
has toiled slowly to the top of the mast can fall suddenly,
just as a great piece of machinery lifted slowly by cogs and
pulleys, if it slips their hold, will come down again with
crushing and damaging force, worse off by far than if it had
never been lifted, so humanity, lifted high above any former
level, by the cogs and levers of invention and improvement,
and by the block and tackle of general education and
enlightenment, has reached a place where (by reason of
selfishness) these can lift no more--where something is giving
way. It will catch and steady for a moment (a few years)
on a lower level, before the cogs and levers which can go no
farther will break under the strain, and utter wreck will
result.

 <316> 

 When machinery was first introduced the results in competition
with human labor and skill were feared; but the
contrary agencies, already referred to (general awakening,
in Christendom and outside, the manufacture of machinery,
wars, armies, etc.), have until now more than counteracted
the natural tendency: so much so that many people
have concluded that this matter acts contrary to reason,
and that labor-saving machinery is not at war with human
labor. But not so: the world still operates under the law of
supply and demand; and the operation of that law is sure,
and can be made plain to any reasonable mind. The demand
for human labor and skill was only temporarily increased
in preparing the yet more abundant supply of
machinery to take labor's place, and, the climax once
reached, the reaction cannot be otherwise than sudden, and
crushing to those upon whom the displaced weight falls. 

 Suppose that civilization has increased the world's demands 
to five times what they were fifty years ago (and surely
that should be considered a very liberal estimate), how is it
with the supply? All will agree that invention and machinery
have increased the supply to more than TEN times what it
was fifty years ago. A mentally-blind man can see that as
soon as enough machinery has been constructed to supply 
the demands , thereafter there must be a race, a competition
between man and machinery; because there will not be
enough work for all, even if no further additions were made
of either men or machines. But more competition is being
added; the world's population is increasing rapidly, and
machinery guided by increased skill is creating more and
better machinery daily. Who cannot see that, under the
present selfish system, as soon as the supply exceeds the demand 
(as soon as we have over-production) the race between
men and machinery must be a short one, and one very disadvantageous

 <317> 

to men. Machines in general are slaves of
iron, steel and wood, vitalized by steam, electricity, etc.
They cannot only do more work, but better work, than men
can do. And they have no minds to cultivate, no perverse
dispositions to control, no wives and families to think of
and provide for; they are not ambitious; they do not form
unions and send delegates to interfere with the management
of the business, nor do they strike; and they are ready
to work extra hours without serious complaint or extra pay.
As slaves, therefore, machines are far more desirable than
either black or white human slaves, and human labor and
skill are therefore being dispensed with as far as possible;
and those who own the machine-slaves are glad that under
present laws and usages their fellowmen are free and independent,
because they are thereby relieved of the responsibility
and care on their behalf which their enslavement
would necessitate. 

 The workmen of the world are not blind. They see, dimly
at least, to what the present system of selfishness, which
they must admit they themselves have helped to foster, and
under which they, as well as all others, are still operating,
must lead. They do not yet see clearly its inevitableness, nor
the abjectness of the servitude to which, unless turned aside,
it will surely and speedily bring them. But they do see that
competition amongst themselves to be the servants of the
machine-slaves (as machinists, engineers, firemen, etc.) is
becoming sharper every year.

 Machinery as a Factor in Preparing for the "Fire." 

 The Past Few Years but a Foretaste of What Is to Come

 We quote from some of the people who are getting
awake, and who realize the possibilities of the future. An
unknown writer says:

 <318> 

 "The brilliancy of the ancient Greek city democracies,
sparkling like points of light against the dark background
of the surrounding barbarism, has been a source of contention
among the modern advocates of different forms of
government. The opponents of popular rule have maintained
that the ancient cities were not true democracies at
all, but aristocracies, since they rested on the labor of slaves,
which alone gave the free citizens the leisure to apply themselves
to politics. There must be a mudsill class, according
to these thinkers, to do the drudgery of the community, and
a polity which allows the common laborers a share in the
government is one which cannot endure. 

 "This plausible reasoning was ingeniously met by Mr.
Charles H. Loring in his Presidential address before the
American Society of Mechanical Engineers in 1892, when
he allowed that modern civilization had all the advantages
of ancient slavery without its cruelty. 'The disgrace of the
ancient civilization,' he said, 'was its utter want of humanity.
Justice, benevolence and mercy held but little sway;
force, fraud and cruelty supplanted them. Nor could anything
better be expected of an organization based upon the
worst system of slavery that ever shocked the sensibilities
of man. As long as human slavery was the origin and support
of civilization, the latter had to be brutal, for the
stream could not rise higher than its source. Such a civilization,
after a rapid culmination, had to decay, and history,
though vague, shows its lapse into a barbarism as dark
as that from which it had emerged.' 

 "'Modern civilization also has at its base a toiling slave,
but one differing widely from his predecessor of the ancients.
He is without nerves and he does not know fatigue.
There is no intermission in his work, and he performs in a
small compass more than the labor of nations of human
slaves. He is not only vastly stronger, but vastly cheaper
than they. He works interminably, and he works at everything;
from the finest to the coarsest he is equally applicable.
He produces all things in such abundance that man,
relieved from the greater part of his servile toil, realizes for
the first time his title of Lord of Creation. The products of

 <319> 

all the great arts of our civilization, the use of cheap and
rapid transportation on land and water, printing, the instruments
of peace and war, the acquisition of knowledge of
all kinds, are made the possibility and the possession of all
by the labor of the obedient slave, which we call steam
engine.' 

 "It is literally true that modern machinery is a slave with
hundreds of times the productive power of the ancient human
slaves, and hence that we have now the material basis
for a civilization in which the entire population would constitute
a leisure class, corresponding to the free citizens of
Athens--a class not free, indeed, to spend its time in indolent
dissipation, but relieved of the hardest drudgery,
and able to support itself in comfort with no more manual
labor than is consistent with good health, mental cultivation
and reasonable amusement. In Great Britain alone it is
estimated that steam does the work of 156,000,000 men,
which is at least five times as many as there were in the entire
civilized world in ancient times, counting slaves and
freemen together. In the United States steam does the
work of 230,000,000 men, representing almost the entire
present population of the globe, and we are harnessing waterfalls
to electric motors at a rate that seems likely to leave
even that aggregation out of sight. 

 "But unfortunately, while we have a material basis for a
civilization of universally diffused comfort, leisure and intelligence,
we have not yet learned how to take advantage
of it. We are improving, but we still have citizens who think
themselves fortunate if they can find the opportunity to
spend all their waking hours in exhaustive labor--citizens
who by our political theory are the equals of any other men
in deciding the policy of the government, but who have no
opportunity to acquire ideas on any subject beyond that of
the outlook for their next meals. 

 "Physical science has given us the means of building the
greatest, the most brilliant, the happiest, and the most enduring
civilization of which history has any knowledge. It
remains for social science to teach us how to use these materials.
Every experiment in that direction, whether it succeed

 <320> 

or fail, is of value. In chemistry there are a thousand fruitless
experiments for every discovery. If Kaveah and Altruria
have failed, we still owe thanks to their projectors for
helping to mark the sunken reefs on the course of progress." 

 A coal-trade journal, The Black Diamond , says: 

 "We have only to glance at the rapidity of transportation
and communication which it has developed to appreciate
the fact that it has indeed secured a position with the aid of
which it is difficult to comprehend how modern business
could now be conducted. One point about mechanical mining ,
and which is a matter of grave importance, is that the mechanic
can be depended upon to render steady labor. The
prospects of strikes are therefore greatly diminished, and it
is a noticeable fact that wherever a strike occurs now it is
often followed by an extension of the machine sway to new
territory. The increased application of mechanical methods
on all sides is gradually lining up the relations of cognate
trade on a basis of adjustment that will continue to tend towards
a point where strikes may become almost impossible. 

 "Electricity is yet in its infancy, but where it once takes
possession of a field it appears to be permanent, and delvers
of the dusky diamonds will soon have to face the stern fact
that where they have not been driven out by the cheap labor
of Europe they have a more invincible foe to meet, and
that in a few years, where thousands are engaged in mining,
hundreds will do an equal amount of work by the aid of
electrical mining machinery." 

 The Olyphant Gazette says: 

 "The wonderful strides of science, and innumerable devices
of this inventive age, are fast driving manual labor out
of many industries, and thousands of workingmen who
found remunerative employment a few years ago are vainly
seeking for something to do. Where hundreds of men were
engaged in a mill or factory, now a score will do a greater
amount of work, aided by mechanical contrivance. The
linotype has thrown thousands of printers idle, and so on
throughout the various trades, machinery does the work
more expeditiously, with less expense, and more satisfactorily
than hand-work. 

 "The prospects are, that in a few years the mining of anthracite

 <321> 

coal will be largely done by electric contrivance,
and that man and the mule will be but the accessory of an
electric device where labor entailing motive power is at
issue." 

 Another writer notes the following as facts: 

 "One man and two boys can do the work which it required
1,100 spinners to do but a few years ago. 

 "One man now does the work of fifty weavers at the time
of his grandfather. 

 "Cotton printing machines have displaced fifteen hundred
laborers to each one retained. 

 "One machine with one man as attendant manufactures
as many horse shoes in one day as it would take 500 men to
make in the same time. 

 "Out of 500 men formerly employed at the log sawing
business, 499 have lost their jobs through the introduction
of modern machinery. 

 "One nail machine takes the place of 1,100 men. 

 "In the manufacture of paper 95 per cent of hand labor
has been replaced. 

 "One man can now make as much pottery ware in the
same time as 1,000 could do before machinery was applied. 

 "By the use of machinery in loading and unloading ships
one man can perform the labor of 2,000 men. 

 "An expert watchmaker can turn out from 250 to 300
watches each year with the aid of machinery, 85 per cent of
former hand labor being thus displaced." 

 The Pittsburgh Post , noting years ago the remarkable
progress of crude iron manufacture during two decades by
improved furnaces, said: 

 "Twenty years ago, in 1876, the production of pig iron in
the United States was 2,093,236 tons. In the year 1895 the
production of pig iron in the County of Allegheny was
2,054,585 tons. In 1885 the total production of the country
was 4,144,000 tons of pig iron, while in 1895 we led the
world with 9,446,000 tons." 

 Canadians notice the same conditions and the same effects.
The Montreal Times says: 

 "With the best machinery of the present day one man

 <322> 

can produce cotton cloth for 250 people. One man can produce
woolens for 300 people. One man can produce boots
and shoes for 1,000 people. One man can produce bread for
200 people. Yet thousands cannot get cottons, woolens,
boots or shoes or bread. There must be some reason for this
state of affairs. There must be some way to remedy this disgraceful
state of anarchy that we are in. Then, what is the
remedy?" 

 The Topeka State Journal said: 

 "Prof. Hertzka, an Austrian economist and statesman,
has discovered that to run the various departments of industry
to supply the 22,000,000 Austrians with all the necessaries
of life, by modern methods and machinery, would
take the labor of only 615,000 men, working the customary
number of hours. To supply all with luxuries would take
but 315,000 more workers. He further calculates that the
present working population of Austria, including all females,
and all males between the ages of 16 and 50, is
5,000,000 in round numbers. His calculations further led
him to assert that this number of workers, all employed and
provided with modern machinery and methods, could supply
all the population with necessaries and luxuries by
working thirty-seven days a year, with the present hours. If
they chose to work 300 days a year, they would only have to
do so during one hour and twenty minutes per day. 

 "Prof. Hertzka's figures regarding Austria, if correct, are
applicable with little variation to every other country, not
excepting the United States. There is a steam harvester at
work in California that reaps and binds ninety acres a day,
with the attention of three men. With gang-plows attached,
the steam apparatus of this machine can plow eighty-eight
acres a day. A baker in Brooklyn employs 350 men and
turns out 70,000 loaves a day, or at the rate of 200 loaves for
each man employed. In making shoes with the McKay machine,
one man can handle 300 pairs in the same time it
would take to handle five pairs by hand. In the agricultural
implement factory 500 men now do the work of 2,500 men. 

 "Prior to 1879 it took seventeen skilled men to turn out
500 dozen brooms per week. Now nine men can turn out
1,200 dozen in the same time. One man can make and finish

 <323> 

2,500 2-pound tin cans a day. A New York watch factory
can turn out over 1,400 watches a day, 511,000 a year,
or at the rate of two or three watches a minute. In the tailoring
business one man with electricity can cut 500 garments
a day. In Carnegie's steel works, electricity helping, eight
men do the work of 300. One match-making machine, fed
by a boy, can cut 10,000,000 sticks a day. The newest weaving
loom can be run without attention all through the dinner
hour, and an hour and a half after the factory is closed,
weaving cloth automatically. 

 "Here is presented the problem of the age that is awaiting
solution: how to so connect our powers and our necessities
that there shall be no waste of energy and no want.
With this problem properly solved, it is plain that there
need be no tired, overworked people; no poverty, no hunger,
no deprivation, no tramps. Solutions innumerable
have been proposed, but so far none seems applicable without
doing somebody an injustice, real or apparent. The
man who shall lead the people to the light in this matter
will be the greatest hero and the greatest benefactor of his
race the world has ever known."

 Female Competition a Factor

 Still another item for consideration is female competition.
In 1880 according to the United States' Census reports,
there were 2,477,157 females engaged in gainful
occupations in the United States. In 1890 the returns
showed the number to be 3,914,711, an increase of more
than fifty per cent. The increase of female labor along the
line of bookkeeping, copying and stenography shows specially
large. The 1880 Census showed 11,756 females so employed;
the 1890 Census showed 168,374. It is safe to say
that the total number of females now (1912) engaged in
gainful occupations is over ten millions. And now these also
are being pushed out by machinery. For instance, a coffee-roasting
establishment in Pittsburgh by installing in two
newly invented coffee-packing machines which are operated

 <324> 

by four women have caused the discharge of fifty-six
women. 

 The competition daily grows more intense, and every
valuable invention only adds to the difficulty. Men and
women are relieved indeed from much drudgery, but who
will maintain them and their families while idle?

 Labor's Views and Methods, 

 Reasonable and Unreasonable

 We can but confess that every indication speaks of a
greater press for work, by a yet larger army of unemployed,
and consequently lower and yet lower wages. To avert this
Labor Unions have been formed, which surely have helped
somewhat to maintain dignity and pay and manhood, and
to preserve many from the crushing power of monopoly.
But these have had their bad as well as their good effects.
They have led men to trust in themselves and their Unions
for counsel and relief from the dilemma, instead of looking
to God and seeking to learn from his Word what is his way,
that they might walk therein and not stumble. Had they
followed the latter course, the Lord would have given them,
as his children, "the spirit of a sound mind," and would
have guided them with his counsel. But such has not been
the result; rather the contrary; unbelief in God, unbelief in
man, general discontent and restless, chafing selfishness
have become intensified. Unions have cultivated the feeling
of selfish independence and boastfulness, and have made
workmen more arbitrary, and alienated from them the
sympathies of good-hearted and benevolent men amongst
the employers, who are fast coming to the conclusion that it
is useless to attempt conciliatory dealing with the Unions,
and that the workmen must learn by severe experience to
be less arbitrary.

 <325> 

 The theory of labor is correct, when it claims that the
blessings and inventions incident to the dawning of the
Millennial morning should inure to the benefit of all mankind,
and not merely to the wealth of those whose avarice,
keen judgments, foresight and positions of advantage have
secured to themselves and their children the ownership of
machinery and land, and the extra wealth which these
daily roll up. They feel that these fortunate ones should not
selfishly take all they can get, but should generously share
all advantages with them; not as a gift , but as a right ; not
under the law of selfish competition , but under the divine law of
love for the neighbor . They support their claims by the teachings
of the Lord Jesus, and frequently quote his precepts. 

 But they seem to forget that they are asking the fortunate
ones to live by the rule of love, for the benefit of those less
fortunate, who still wish to live by the law of selfishness. Is it
reasonable to ask of others what they are unwilling to accord
to others? And however desirable and commendable
this may be, is it wise to expect it, if asked? Surely not. The
very men who demand most loudly that those more fortunate
than they should share with them are quite unwilling
to share their measure of prosperity with those less fortunate
than themselves. 

 Another result of the rule of selfishness in human affairs is
that a majority of the comparatively few men who have
good judgment are absorbed by the great business enterprises,
trusts, etc., of today, while those who offer counsel to
Labor Unions are often men of moderate or poor judgment.
Nor is good, moderate advice likely to be acceptable
when offered. Workingmen have learned to be suspicious,
and many of them now presume that those offering sensible
advice are spies and emissaries in sympathy with the employers'
party. The majority are unreasonable, and subject
only to the shrewd ones who pander to the whims of the

 <326> 

more ignorant, in order to be their comfortably-paid
leaders. 

 Whether it be of ignorance or of bad judgment, fully one
half of the advice accepted and acted upon has proved bad,
unwise and unfavorable to those designed to be benefited.
The trouble, in great part, no doubt is that, leaning on the
arm of human strength, as represented in their own numbers
and courage, they neglect the wisdom which is from
above, which is "first pure, then peaceable, gentle, easy to
be entreated, and full of mercy and good fruits, without
partiality and without hypocrisy." Consequently they have
not "the spirit [disposition] of a sound mind" to guide them.
`2 Tim. 1:7` 

 They fancy that they can by Unions, boycotts, etc., keep
the price of labor in a few departments double or treble the
prices paid for other kinds of labor. They fail to observe
that under the new mechanical conditions it does not as formerly
require years to learn a trade; that with common
school and newspaper education general, thousands can
speedily learn to do what few understood formerly; and
that the oversupply of labor, breaking down prices in one
trade or industry, will turn that many more men into competition
for easier or more remunerative employment in
other directions, and ultimately with such a pressure of
numbers as to be irresistible. Men will not stand back and
hunger, and see their families starve, rather than accept for
one or two dollars per day, a situation now paying three or
four dollars per day to another. 

 So long as the conditions are favorable --the labor supply
less than the demand or the demand for goods greater than
the supply--Labor Unions can and do accomplish considerable
good for their members by way of maintaining good
wages, favorable hours and healthful conditions under

 <327> 

which to labor. But it is a mistake to judge the future by the
past in this matter, and to rely upon Unions to counteract
the laws of supply and demand. Let labor look away to its
only hope, the Lord, and not lean upon the arm of flesh.

 The Law of Supply and Demand Inexorable upon All

 The present basis of business, with small and great, rich
and poor, as we have seen, is love-less, crushing, selfish.
Manufactured goods are sold at as high prices as the manufacturers
and merchants can get for them: they are bought
by the public at as low prices as will secure them. The question
of actual value is seldom even considered, except from
the selfish side. Grain and farm produce are sold at as high
prices as the farmer can get, and are bought by the consumers
at as low prices as will procure them. Labor and
skill, likewise, are sold at as high prices as their owners can
command, and are bought by farmers, merchants and
manufacturers, at as low prices as will secure what they
need. 

 The operations of this "Law of Supply and Demand" are
absolute: no one can alter them; no one can ignore them
entirely and live under present social arrangements. Suppose,
for instance, that the farmer were to say, "I will defy
this law which now governs the world. The price of wheat is
sixty cents per bushel; but it should be one dollar per bushel
in order to properly pay for my own labor and that which I
employ: I will not sell my wheat under one dollar per
bushel." The result would be that his wheat would rot, his
family would be needy for clothing, his hired help would be
deprived of their wages by his whim, and the man of whom
he borrowed money would become impatient at his failure
to meet his engagements and would sell his farm, and
wheat, and all, for his debt.

 <328> 

 Or suppose the matter the other way. Suppose the farmer
should say, "I am now paying my farm helpers thirty dollars
per month; but I learn that in a nearby town mechanics
who work no harder, and for shorter hours, are paid from
fifty to a hundred dollars per month: I am resolved that
hereafter I will make eight hours a day's work and sixty dollars
a month's pay the year round." What would be the result
of such an attempt to defy the law of supply and
demand? He would probably soon find himself in debt.
True, if all farmers in the United States paid the same
wages, and if all sold at fair prices, it could be done; but at
the close of the season the elevators would be full of wheat,
for Europe would buy elsewhere. And what then? Why, the
news would be telegraphed to India, Russia and South
America, and the wheat growers there would ship their
wheat here, and break what would be termed the Farmer's
Combine, and supply the poor with cheap bread. Evidently
such an arrangement, if it could be effected, could not last
more than one year. 

 And this same law of the present social order--the Law
of Supply and Demand--equally controls every other product
of human labor or skill, varying according to
circumstances. 

 In this Great Republic, conditions have been favorable
to a large demand, high wages and good profits, by reason
of a protective tariff against the competition of Europe, and
the tendency has been for the money of Europe to come
here for investment, because of better profits; and foreign
labor and skill also came here for the sake of better pay than
could be obtained at home. These were but the operations
of the same Law of Supply and Demand. And the millions
of money for investment in machinery and railroads, and
to provide the people with homes and the necessities of life,
have for years made this the most remarkable country of

 <329> 

the world for prosperity. But the height of this prosperity is
passed, and we are on the downward slope. And nothing
can hinder it except it be war or other calamities in the
other civilized nations, which would throw the business of
the world for a time to the nations at peace. The war between
China and Japan relieved the pressure slightly, not
only by reason of the arms and ammunition bought by the
contending parties, but also by the indemnity paid by
China to Japan which in turn was expended by the Japanese
for war vessels constructed in various countries, chiefly
in Great Britain. Moreover, the realization that Japan is
now a "sea power" has led the governments of Europe and
the United States to add to their naval equipment. Nothing
could be more shortsighted than the recent mass meeting
of workingmen held in New York to protest against further
expenditure for naval and coast defenses in the United
States. They should see that such expenditures help to keep
labor employed. Opposed as we are to war, we are no less
opposed to having men starve for want of employment;
and would risk the increased danger of war. Let the debts of
the world turn into bonds. Bonds will be just as good as
gold and silver in the great time of trouble approaching.
`Ezek. 7:19`; `Zeph. 1:18` 

 Many can see that competition is the danger: consequently
the "Chinese Exclusion Bill" became a law, not
only stopping the immigration of the Chinese millions, but
providing for the expulsion from this country of all who do
not become citizens. And to stop immigration from Europe
a law was passed forbidding the landing of emigrants who
cannot read some language, etc. Many see that under the
law of supply and demand labor will soon be on a common
level the world over, and they desire to prevent as much as
possible, and as long as possible, the degradation of labor in
the United States, to either the European or Asiatic levels.

 <330> 

 Others are seeking to legislate a remedy--to vote that
manufacturers shall pay large wages and sell their products
at a small margin above cost. They forget that Capital, if
made unprofitable here, will go elsewhere to build, employ
and manufacture--where conditions are favorable, where
wages are lower or prices more profitable. 

 But the outlook for the immediate future under present
conditions appears yet darker, when we take a still wider
view of the subject. The Law of Supply and Demand governs
Capital as well as Labor. Capital is as alert as Labor
to seek profitable employment. It, too, keeps posted, and is
called hither and thither throughout the world. But Capital
and Labor follow opposite routes and are governed by
opposite conditions. Skilled Labor seeks the localities where
wages are highest; Capital seeks the regions where wages
are lowest, that thus it may secure the larger profits. 

 Machinery has served Capital graciously, and still serves
faithfully; but as Capital increases and machinery multiplies
"overproduction" follows; that is, more is produced
than can be sold at a profit; and competition, lower prices
and smaller profits follow. This naturally leads to combinations
for maintaining prices and profits, called Trusts;
but it is doubtful if these can long be maintained except in
connection with patented articles, or commodities whose
supply is very limited, or fostered by legislation which
sooner or later will be corrected.

 Outlook for Foreign Industrial Competition Appalling

 But just at this juncture a new field for enterprise and
Capital, but not for Labor, opens up. Japan and China are
awakening to Western civilization from a sleep of centuries
--to an appreciation of steam, electricity, machinery
and modern inventions in general. We should remember

 <331> 

that Japan's population about corresponds to that of Great
Britain; and that China's population is more than five
times that of the United States. Let us remember, too, that
these millions are not savages, but people who generally
can read and write their own language; and that their civilization,
although different, is far older than that of
Europe--that they were civilized, manufacturers of
chinawares and silk goods when Great Britain was peopled
with savages. We need not be surprised, therefore, to learn
that Capital is seeking engagement in China, and especially
in Japan--to build railroads there, to carry thither
machinery, to erect there large manufacturing establishments
--that thus they may utilize the skill, energy,
thrift, patience and submissiveness of those millions accustomed
to toil and frugality. 

 Capital sees large rewards in a land where labor can be
had at from six to fifteen cents per day for each employee--
accepted without a murmur, and with thanks. Considerable
capital has already gone to Japan, and more awaits
concession in China. Who cannot see that it will require but
the short space of a very few years to bring the whole manufacturing
world into competition with these millions of already
skillful and apt-to-learn peoples? If present wages in
Europe are found insufficient; and if because of previous
munificent wages in the United States and the (as compared
with Europe and Asia) extravagant ideas and habits
cultivated here, we consider present wages "starvation
wages" (although they are still double what is paid in Europe
and eight times what is paid in Asia), what would be
the deplorable condition of labor throughout the civilized
world after thirty more years of inventing and building of
labor-saving machinery; and after all the labor of the world
has been brought into close competition with the cheap

 <332> 

labor of the far East? It would mean not only fifteen cents a
day as pay, but in addition six men for every job at even
that pittance. The public press years ago noted the removal
of a cotton mill from Connecticut to Japan, and since then
other manufacturers have gone thither, in order to secure a
field of cheaper labor and of consequently larger profits. 

 The German Emperor evidently saw this "industrial
war" approaching; he symbolically represented it in the
celebrated picture drawn by an artist under his guidance
and presented to the Czar of Russia. The picture represents
the nations of Europe by female figures clad in armor
standing in the light shining from a cross in the sky above
them, and at the direction of an angelic figure representing
Michael looking to a black cloud arising from China and
floating toward them, from which hideous forms and faces
are developed by the flashing lightning. Under the picture
are the words: "Nations of Europe! Join in the defense of
your Faith and your Homes."

 The Yellow Man with White Money

 The following was extracted from an able paper in the
 Journal of the Imperial Colonial Institute (English), by Mr.
Whitehead, a member of the Legislative Council, Hong
Kong, China. He said: 

 "So far, the Chinese have made but a beginning in the
construction of spinning and weaving factories. On the
river Yang Tsze and in the neighborhood of Shanghai,
some five mills are already working, and others are in
course of construction. It is estimated that they will contain
about 200,000 spindles; and some of them have commenced
work. The capital employed is entirely native, and
with peace restored in these regions, there is, with honest,
capable management, while our present monetary system
continues, really no limit to the expansion and development
of industries in Oriental countries."

 <333> 

 Here we notice along the same lines a Washington, D.C.,
dispatch as early as 1896, announcing a report to the Government
by Consul General Jernigan, stationed at
Shanghai, China, to the effect that the cotton industry
there is receiving great attention; that since 1890 cotton
mills are being introduced and prospering; that a cotton-seed-oil
plant was being started; and that as in China the
area suitable for the cultivation of cotton is almost as limitless
as the supply of very cheap labor, "there can be no
doubt that China will soon be one of the greatest cotton producing
countries in the world." 

 Mr. Whitehead discussing the 1894 war between China
and Japan, declares that in it rested the chief hope of
China's industrial resurrection. He continues: 

 "The outcome of the present war may help to relieve the
Chinese people from the trammels of the mandarins.
China's mineral and other resources are known to be
enormous, and at the very door they have millions of acres
of land admirably adapted to the cultivation of cotton,
which, though of short staple, is suitable for mixing with
other qualities. In the Shanghai River in December, 1893,
there were at one time no less than five ocean-going steamers
taking in cargoes of China-grown cotton for transportation
to Japan, there to be converted by Japanese mills
and Japanese hands into yarn and cloth. The Japanese are
now importing for their mills cotton direct from America
and elsewhere. After this terrible awakening, should China,
with her three hundred millions of intensely industrious
people, open her vast inland provinces by the introduction
of railways, her interior waterways to steam traffic and her
boundless resources to development, it is impossible to form
an estimate of the consequences. It would mean the discovery
of practically a new hemisphere, thickly populated with
industrious races, and abounding in agricultural, mineral
and other resources; but so far from the opening of China,
which we may reasonably hope will be one of the results of
the present war, being a benefit to English manufacturers,

 <334> 

unless some change is made, and that soon, in our monetary
standard, the Celestial Empire, which has been the scene of
so many of our industrial victories, will only be the field of
our greatest defeat." 

 Mr. Whitehead's view is purely capitalistic when he
speaks of "defeat"--really the "defeat" will fall still heavier
upon English labor. Continuing, he glances at Japan, as
follows: 

 "The neighborhood of Osaka and Kioto is now a surprising
spectacle of industrial activity. In a very brief period of
time no less than fifty-nine cotton spinning and weaving
mills have sprung into existence there, with the aid of upwards
of twenty millions of dollars, entirely native capital.
They now have 770,874 spindles, and in May last competent
authorities estimated the annual output of these
mills at over 500,000 bales of yarn, valued roughly at forty
millions of dollars, or at the present exchange, say, four million
pounds sterling. In short, Japanese industries, not only
spinning and weaving, but of all classes, have increased by
leaps and bounds. They have already carried their success
to a point from which they may to a considerable extent
disregard British industrial competition." 

 Mr. Whitehead proceeds to show that the capitalists of
Europe and the United States, having demonetized silver,
have nearly doubled the value of gold, and that this nearly
doubles the advantage of China and Japan. He says: 

 "Let me explain that silver will still employ the same
quantity of Oriental labor as it did twenty or thirty years
ago. The inadequacy of our monetary standard therefore
allows Eastern countries to now employ at least one hundred
per cent more of labor for a given amount of gold than
they could do twenty-five years ago. To make this important
statement quite clear allow me to give the following
example: In 1870 ten rupees was the equivalent of one sovereign
under the joint standard of gold and silver, and paid
twenty men for one day. Today twenty rupees are about
the equivalent of one sovereign, so that for twenty rupees
forty men can be engaged for one day, instead of twenty

 <335> 

men as in 1870. Against such a disability British labor cannot
possibly compete. 

 "In Oriental countries silver will still pay for the same
quantity of labor as formerly. Yet, as now measured in gold,
silver is worth less than half of the gold it formerly equalled.
For example, a certain quantity of labor could have been
engaged in England twenty years ago for, say, eight shillings.
Eight shillings in England now will pay for no more
labor than formerly, wages being about the same, and they
have still by our law exactly the same monetary value as
formerly, though their metallic value has, by the appreciation
of gold, been reduced to less than sixpence each. The
two dollars exactly similar to the old ones, can employ the
same quantity of labor as before, but no more, yet at the
present gold price they are only equal to four shillings.
Therefore it is possible now to employ as much labor in
Asia for four shillings of our money, or the equivalent
thereof in silver, as could have been employed twenty years
ago for eight shillings, or its then equivalent in silver. The
value of Oriental labor having thus been reduced by upwards
of fifty-five per cent in gold money compared with
what it was formerly, it will be able to produce manufactures
and commodities just so much cheaper than the labor
in gold-standard countries. Therefore, unless our monetary
law is amended, or unless British labor is prepared to accept a
large reduction of wages, British industrial trades must inevitably
leave British shores, because their products will be superseded by the
establishment of industries in silver-standard countries." 

 Mr. Whitehead might truthfully have added that the silver
standard countries will soon not only be prepared to
supply their own needs, but also to invade the gold standard
countries. For instance, Japan could sell goods in England
at prices one-third less than prevail in Japan; and, by
exchanging the gold money received into silver money, can
take home to Japan large profits. Thus the American and
European mechanics will not only be forced to compete
with the Asiatic cheap and patient labor and skill, but in
addition will be at the disadvantage in the competition by

 <336> 

reason of the difference between the gold and silver standards
of financial exchange. 

 Commenting upon Mr. Whitehead's lecture, the Daily
Chronicle (London) calls attention to the fact that India has
 already largely supplanted much of England's trade in cotton
manufactures. It said: 

 "The Hon. T. H. Whitehead's lecture last night at the
Colonial Institute drew attention to some astonishing figures
in relation to our eastern trade. The fact that during
the last four years our exports show a decrease of
#54,000,000 has unfortunately nothing disputable about
it. The returns of the sixty-seven spinning companies of
Lancashire for 1894 show an aggregate adverse balance of
#411,000. Against this the increase in the export of Indian
yarns and piece goods to Japan has been simply colossal,
and the cotton mills at Hiogo, in Japan, for 1891, showed
an average profit of seventeen per cent. Sir Thomas Sutherland
has said that before long the Peninsular and Oriental
Company may be building its ships on the Yangtze, and
Mr. Whitehead believes that Oriental countries will soon be
competing in European markets . However much we may differ
about proposed remedies, statements like these from the
mouths of experts afford matter for serious reflection." 

 A German newspaper, Tageblatt (Berlin), carefully looked
into the matter of Japan's decided victory over China, and
was surprised at the intelligence it found. It pronounced
Count Ito, the Japanese Prime Minister, another Bismarck;
and the Japanese in general quite civilized. It concluded
with a very significant remark respecting the industrial war 
which we are considering, saying: 

 "Count Ito shows much interest in the industrial development
of his fatherland. He believes that most foreigners
underrate the chances of Japan in the international
struggle for industrial supremacy. The Japanese women, he
thinks, are equal to the men in every field of labor, and
double the capacity for work of the nation." 

 The Editor of the Economiste Francais (Paris), commenting
upon Japan and its affairs, says, significantly:

 <337> 

 "The world has entered upon a new stage. Europeans
must reckon with the new factors of civilization. The Powers
must cease to quarrel among themselves, and must show
a combined front, and they must remember that henceforth
the hundreds of millions in the far East--sober, hardworking
and nimble workmen--will be our rivals." 

 Mr. George Jamison, British Consul General at
Shanghai, China, wrote on the subject of Oriental Competition,
showing that the demonetization and hence depreciation
of silver, leaving gold the standard money in
civilized lands, is another item which depresses Labor and
profits Capital. He said: 

 "The continual rise in the value of gold, as compared
with that of silver, has changed everything. British goods
got so dear in their silver value that the Orient was forced to
make for himself, and the decline in the value of the white
metal has so helped him in his work that he cannot only
make sufficient for himself but is able to export them to advantage.
The rise in the value of gold has doubled the silver
price of British goods in the East and has made their use
almost prohibitive, while the fall in the value of silver has
brought down by over a half the gold price of Oriental
goods in gold using countries, and is continually increasing
the demand for them. The conditions are so unequal that it
seems impossible to continue the struggle long. It is like
handicapping the champion by giving to his opponent half
the distance of the race. 

 "The impossibility of the European competing with the
Oriental in the open field has been proved in America. The
Chinese there by their low wages so monopolized labor that
they had to be excluded from the country or the European
workmen would have starved or been driven out. But the
European countries are not threatened with the laborer
himself as the Americans were (he knew the price of European
labor, and could learn, understand, how much he
should get himself), but with the products of that labor
done at Oriental wages. Besides, it would be easy enough to
refuse to employ an Oriental to do your work while it is difficult
to decline to buy goods made by him, especially as

 <338> 

they improve in quality and get cheaper in price. The
temptation to buy them becomes all the greater as the
money earned by the British workman gets less. He is the
more prone to do so, and declines to buy his own make, but
dearer goods. Protective countries are better off. They can
impose increased duties on Oriental goods, and so stop
them from flooding their markets. But England with her
free trade has no defense, and the brunt of the burden will
fall upon her workmen. The evil is getting greater. Every
farthing in the increase of the price of gold as compared
with that of silver makes English goods one per cent dearer
in the East, while every farthing decrease in the price of silver
makes Oriental goods one per cent cheaper in gold-using
countries. These new industries are growing very
rapidly in Japan, and what is being done there can and will
be done in China, India and other places. Once well established,
the Orient will hold on to them in spite of all opposition,
and unless some speedy remedy is found to alter the
currency system of the world, their products will be spread
broadcast all over the world to the ruin of British industries
and untold disaster to thousands and thousands of workmen." 

 Mr. Lafcadio Hearn, who for several years was a teacher
in Japan, in an article in the Atlantic Monthly (October,
1895), pointed out as one of the reasons why Japanese competition
is so sharp, that the poor can live and move and
have their being, comfortably, according to their ideas of
comfort, at almost no expense. He explains that a Japanese
city is made up of houses of mud, bamboos and paper, put
up in five days, and intended to last, with endless repairing,
only so long as its owner may not desire to change his
abode. There are, in fact, no great buildings in Japan except
a few colossal fortresses erected by the nobles while feudalism
prevailed. The modern factories in Japan, however
extensive their business or however beautiful and costly
their products, are but long-drawn shanties, and the very
temples must, by immemorial custom, be cut into little
pieces every twenty years, and distributed among the pilgrims.

 <339> 

A Japanese workman never roots himself or wishes
to root himself. If he has any reason for changing his province
he changes it at once, dismantling his house, the paper
and mud hut which is so picturesque and cleanly, packing
his belongings on his shoulder, telling his wife and family
to follow, and trudging off with a light step and a lighter
heart for his far-away destination, perhaps five hundred
miles off, where he arrives after an expenditure of perhaps,
at the outside, 5s. ($1.22), immediately builds him a house
which costs a few shillings more, and is at once a respectable
and responsible citizen again. Says Mr. Hearn: 

 "All Japan is always on the move in this way, and change
is the genius of Japanese civilization. In the great industrial
competition of the world, fluidity is the secret of Japanese
strength. The worker shifts his habitation without a regret
to the place where he is most wanted. The factory can be
moved at a week's notice, the artisan at half-a-day's. There
are no impedimenta to transport, there is practically nothing
to build, there is no expense except in coppers to hinder
travel. 

 "The Japanese man of the people--the skilled laborer
able to underbid without effort any Western artisan in the
same line of industry--remains happily independent of
both shoemaker and tailor. His feet are good to look at, his
body is healthy and his heart is free. If he desires to travel a
thousand miles, he can get ready for his journey in five minutes.
His whole outfit need not cost seventy-five cents; and
all his baggage can be put into a handkerchief. On ten dollars
he can travel a year without work, or he can travel simply
on his ability to work, or he can travel as a pilgrim. You
may reply that any savage can do the same thing. Yes, but
any civilized man cannot; and the Japanese has been a
highly civilized man for at least a thousand years. Hence
his present capacity to threaten Western manufacturers." 

 Commenting on the above the London Spectator says: 

 "That is a very noteworthy sketch, and we acknowledge
frankly, as we have always acknowledged, that Japanese
competition is a very formidable thing, which some day

 <340> 

may deeply affect all the conditions of European industrial
civilization." 

 The character of the competition to be expected from
this quarter will be seen from the following, from the Literary
Digest on

 "The Condition of Labor in Japan."

 "Japan has made astonishing progress in the development
of her industries. This is in no small measure due to
the intelligence and the diligence of her laborers, who will
often work fourteen hours per day without complaining.
Unfortunately, their complaisance is abused to a great extent
by their employers, whose only object seems to be to
overcome foreign competition. This is specially the case in
the cotton manufacture, which employs large numbers of
hands. An article in the Echo , Berlin, describes the manner
in which Japanese factories are run as follows: 

 "The usual time to begin work is 6 A.M., but the workmen
are willing to come at any time, and do not complain if
they are ordered to appear at 4 A.M. Wages are surprisingly
low; even in the largest industrial centers weavers and spinners
average only fifteen cents a day; women receive only
six cents. The first factories were built by the government,
which afterward turned them over to joint stock companies.
The most prosperous industry is the manufacture of
cotton goods. A single establishment, that of Kanegafuchi,
employs 2,100 men and 3,700 women. They are divided
into day and night shifts and interrupt their twelve hours'
work only once for forty minutes, to take a meal. Near the
establishment are lodgings, where the workers can also obtain
a meal at the price of not quite one and a half cents.
The Osaka spinneries are similar. All these establishments
possess excellent English machines, work is kept going day
and night, and large dividends are realized. Many of the
factories are opening branch works, or increasing their
original plant, for the production is not yet up to the consumption.

 <341> 

 "That the manufacturers have learned quickly to employ
women as cheap competitors to male laborers is
proved by the statistics, which show that thirty-five spinneries
give work to 16,879 women and only 5,730 men. The
employers form a powerful syndicate and often abuse the
leniency of the authorities, who do not wish to cripple the
industries. Little girls eight and nine years of age are forced
to work from nine to twelve hours. The law requires that
these children should be in school, and the teachers complain;
but the officials close their eyes to these abuses. The
great obedience and humility of the workmen have led to
another practice, which places them completely in the
power of their employers. No mill will employ a workman
from another establishment unless he produces a written
permit from his late employer. This rule is enforced so
strictly that a new hand is closely watched, and if it is
proved that he already knows something of the trade, but
has no permit, he is immediately discharged." 

 The British Trade Journal also published an account of the
industries of Osaka, from a letter of a correspondent of the
Adelaide (Australia) Observer . This correspondent, writing
directly from Osaka, is so impressed with the variety and
vitality of the industries of the city that he calls it "the
Manchester of the Far East": 

 "Some idea of the magnitude of the manufacturing industry
of Osaka will be formed when it is known that there
are scores of factories with a capital of over 50,000 yen and
under, more than thirty each with a capital of over 100,000
yen, four with more than 1,000,000 yen, and one with
2,000,000 yen. These include silk, wool, cotton, hemp, jute,
spinning and weaving, carpets, matches, paper, leather,
glass, bricks, cement, cutlery, furniture, umbrellas, tea,
sugar, iron, copper, brass, sake, soap, brushes, combs, fancy
ware, etc. It is, in fact, a great hive of activity and enterprise,
in which the imitative genius and the unflagging pertinacity
of the Japanese have set themselves to equal, and, if
possible, excel, the workers and artisans of the old civilized
nations of the West.

 <342> 

 "There are ten cotton mills running in Osaka, the combined
capital of which is about $9,000,000 in gold, all fitted
up with the latest machinery, and completely lighted by
electricity. They are all under Japanese management, and,
it is said, all paying handsome dividends--some as much as
eighteen per cent on the invested capital. Out of
$19,000,000 worth of cotton imported into Japan in one
year the mills of Kobe and Osaka took and worked up
about seventy-nine per cent."

 A silver "yen" is now worth about 50 cents in gold.

 Note also the following telegram to the public press:

 "SAN FRANCISCO, CAL., June 6--The Hon. Robert P.
Porter, editor of the Cleveland World and ex-superintendent
of 1890 U.S. Census, returned from Japan on the
steamer Peru, yesterday. Mr. Porter's visit to the empire of
the Mikado was for the purpose of investigating the industrial
conditions of that country with regard to the effect of
Japanese competition upon American prosperity. After
thorough investigation of the actual conditions in Japan,
he expresses the belief that this is one of the most momentous
problems which the United States will be obliged to
solve. The danger is close at hand as evinced by the enormous
increase of Japanese manufactures within the past five
years, and its wonderful resources in the way of cheap and
skillful labor. Japanese exports of textiles alone have increased
from $511,000 to $23,000,000 in the last ten years;
and their total exports increased from $78,000,000 to
$300,000,000 in the same period, said Mr. Porter. Last year
they purchased $2,500,000 worth of our raw cotton, but we
purchased of Japan various goods to the amount of
$54,000,000. 

 "To illustrate the rapid increase he mentioned matches,
of which Japan manufactured $60,000 worth ten years ago,
chiefly for home consumption, while last year the total output
was $4,700,000 worth, nearly all of which went to India.
Ten years ago the exports of matting and rugs was
$885 worth; last year these items amounted to $7,000,000
worth. They are enabled to do this by a combination of
modern machinery and the most docile labor in the world.

 <343> 

They have no factory laws, and can employ children at any
age. Children, seven, eight and nine years of age work the
whole day long at one to two American cents per day. 

 "In view of the growing demand for our cotton and the
growth of their exports of manufactured goods to us, a
Japanese syndicate was formed while I was there, with a
capital stock of $5,000,000 to build and operate three new
lines of steamships between Japan and this country, the
American ports designated being Portland, Oregon Philadelphia
and New York." 

 The reporter saw and interviewed Mr. S. Asam, of
Tokyo, Japan, a representative of the above mentioned
steamship syndicate, who arrived on the same steamer with
Mr. Porter, to make contracts for building said steamers.
He explained that the Japanese government had recently
offered a large subsidy for vessels of over 6,000 tons burden,
between the United States and Japan, and that their syndicate
had formed to take advantage of the same, and would
build all of its vessels still larger--of about 9,000 tons capacity.
The syndicate proposed to do a very heavy business,
and to this end would cut freight and passenger rates very
low. A $9 passenger rate between Japan and our Pacific
coast is contemplated.

 U.S. Congress Investigates Japanese Competition

 The following, taken from a report of a U.S. Congressional
Committee, should be considered reliable beyond
question, and it fully confirms the foregoing. 

 "WASHINGTON, June 9, '96--Chairman Dingley, of the
House ways and means committee, today made a report on
the menace to American manufacturers by the threatened
invasion of the cheap products of Oriental labor and the effect
of the difference of exchange between gold and silver
standard countries upon United States' manufacturing
and agricultural interests, these questions having been investigated
by the committee. 

 "The report says the sudden awakening of Japan is being

 <344> 

followed by an equally rapid westernizing of her methods
of industry; that, while the Japanese do not have the inventive
faculty of Americans, their imitative powers are
wonderful. Their standard of living would be regarded as
practical starvation by the workmen of the United States,
and their hours of labor average 12 a day. Such skilled
workmen as blacksmiths, carpenters, masons, compositors,
tailors and plasterers receive in Japanese cities only from 26
to 33 cents, and factory operatives 5 to 20 cents per day in
our money, and nearly double those sums in Japanese silver
money, while farm hands receive $1.44 per month. 

 "The report continues: Europeans and Americans are
recognizing the profitable field afforded for investment and
factories. Sixty-one cotton mills controlled ostensibly by
Japanese companies, but promoted by Europeans, and several
small silk factories are in operation, with something
over half a million spindles. Japan is making most of the
cotton goods required to supply the narrow wants of her
own people, and is beginning to export cheap silk fabrics
and handkerchiefs. 

 "Recently, a watch factory with American machinery
was established by Americans, although the stock is held in
the names of Japanese, as foreigners will not be permitted
to carry on manufacturing in their own names until 1899.
The progress made indicates that the enterprise will prove a
success. 

 "It is probable the rapid introduction of machinery into
Japan will, within a few years, make fine cottons, silks and
other articles in which the labor cost here is an important
element in production, a more serious competitor in our
markets than the products of Great Britain, France and
Germany have been. 

 "According to Mr. Dingley, the competition will differ,
not in kind, but in degree from European competition. The
committee knows no remedy, outside of the absolute prohibition
enforced against convict labor goods, except the imposition
of duties on competing goods equivalent to the
difference of cost and distribution. An argument for this
policy is made; it being said to accomplish a double purpose,
the collection of revenue to support the government

 <345> 

and the placing of competition in our markets on the basis
of our higher wages. This is said to be not for the benefit of
the manufacturer in this country, for the manufacturer has
only to go to England or Japan to place himself on the same
basis as he is placed here under duties on competing imports
equivalent to the difference of wages here and there,
but to secure to all the people the benefits which come from
home rather than foreign production." 

 The Japanese government gives no protection to foreign
patents. The civilized world's most valuable labor-saving
machinery is purchased and duplicated cheaply by her
cheap craftsmen who, though not "original," are, like the
Chinese, wonderful imitators. Thus her machinery will cost
less than one-half what it costs elsewhere; and Japan will
soon be prepared to sell Christendom either its own patented
machinery or its manufactured products. 

 Under the caption, "Japanese Competition," the San
Francisco Chronicle wrote: 

 "Another straw showing which way the wind of Japanese
competition blows is the transfer of a great straw matting
manufactory from Milford, Ct., to Kobe, one of the industrial
centers of Japan. Those who affect to pooh-pooh the
subject of Japanese competition and airily speak of the superiority
of Western intellect, entirely overlook the fact that
the mobility of capital is such that it can easily be transferred
to countries where cheap labor can be had, so that all
that is necessary is for the superior intellects of America and
Europe to invent machines, and the owners of capital can
buy them and transfer them to countries where they can be
operated most cheaply." 

 Hon. Robert P. Porter, referred to above, contributed an
article to the North American Review some time ago in which
he points out that, notwithstanding the United States Tariff
against foreign-made goods, the Japanese are rapidly making
inroads upon United States manufactures. They can
do this by reason (1) of their cheap and patient labor, and
(2) by reason of the one hundred per cent advantage of their silver

 <346> 

standard over the gold standard of civilized countries,
which far more than offsets any tariff protection that would
be considered feasible. 

 We give some extracts from the article in question as
follows: 

 "The Japanese have, metaphorically speaking, thrown
their hats into the American market, and challenged our labor
and capital with goods which, for excellence and
cheapness, seem for the moment to defy competition, even
with the latest labor-saving appliances at hand." 

 After giving a statistical table of various Japanese articles
imported into the United States, he says: 

 "Within the last few months I have visited the districts in
Japan and inspected the industries reported in the above
table. The increase in the exports of textiles, which was over
forty-fold in ten years, is due to the fact that Japan is a nation
of weavers." 

 The Japanese, it seems, are sending large quantities of
cheap silks and all kinds of cheap goods into American, but
what they have done is as nothing to what they are about to
do: 

 "The Japanese are making every preparation, by the formation
of guilds and associations, to improve the quality
and increase the uniformity of their goods." 

 Incidentally Mr. Porter intimated that the cotton mills
of Lancashire, England, which have no protection, are
doomed. In Japan, he says: 

 "Cotton spinning in 1889 gave employment to only
5,394 women and 2,539 men. In 1895 over 30,000 women
and 10,000 men were employed in mills that for equipment
and output are equal to those of any country. The future
situation of the cotton industry, at least to supply the
Asiatic trade, is bound to be in China and Japan. England
is doomed so far as this trade is concerned, and nothing can
save her--not even bimetallism, as some imagine. Cotton
mills are going up rapidly, both in Osaka and Shanghai,
and only actual experience for a period of years will demonstrate
which of these locations is the better. My own

 <347> 

judgment, after a close examination of every item in the
cost of production, is Japan. 

 "Should Japan take up the manufacture of woolen and
worsted goods as she has done cotton, her weavers could
give Europe and America some surprises and dumbfound
those who claim there is nothing in Japanese competition.
A constant supply of cheap wool from Australia makes it
possible, while the samples of Japanese woolen and worsted
cloth and dress goods which I examined while there indicate
that in this branch of textiles the Japanese are as
much at home as in silk and cotton. They are also doing
good work in fine linens, though so far the quantities produced
are small. 

 "The sudden influx of the Japanese umbrella, something
like 2,000,000 exported a year, has caused anxiety among
umbrella makers in the United States." 

 The Japanese themselves do not hesitate to boast of their
approaching triumph in the "industrial war." Mr. Porter
said: 

 "When in Japan I had the pleasure of meeting, among
other statesmen and officials, Mr. Kaneko, Vice-Minister of
Agriculture and Commerce. I found him a man with intelligence
and foresight, and of wide experience in economical
and statistical matters. Educated in one of the great European
universities, he is up to the spirit of the age in all
that relates to Japan and her industrial and commercial
future." 

 Mr. Kaneko afterwards made a speech to a Chamber of
Commerce, in which he said: 

 "The cotton spinners of Manchester [England] are
known to have said that while the Anglo-Saxons had
passed through three generations before they became clever
and apt hands for the spinning of cotton, the Japanese have
acquired the necessary skill in this industry in ten years'
time, and have now advanced to a stage where they surpass
the Manchester people in skill." 

 A dispatch from San Francisco we quote as follows: 

 "M. Oshima, technical director of the proposed steel
works in Japan, and four Japanese engineers, arrived on

 <348> 

the steamer Rio de Janeiro from Yokohama. They are on a
tour of inspection of the great steel works of America and
Europe, and are commissioned to buy a plant costing
$2,000,000. They say they will buy just where they can buy
the best and cheapest. The plant is to have a capacity of
100,000 tons. It will be built in the coal fields in Southern
Japan, and both Martin and Bessemer steel are to be
manufactured. 

 "Mr. Oshima said: 'We want to put our nation where it
properly belongs, in the van, as a manufacturing nation.
We will need a vast amount of steel and do not want to depend
on any other country for it.'" 

 Marching closely behind Japan comes India, with its
population of 250,000,000, and its rapidly growing industries;
and next comes the new Chinese Republic, with its
400,000,000, awakened by its recent rebellion to a recognition
of Western civilization, which enabled Japan with only
40,000,000 to conquer it. China's late Prime Minister, Li
Hung Chang, some years ago toured the world, negotiating
for American and European instructors for his people, and
freely expressed his intention to inaugurate reforms in every
department. This is the man who so impressed General
U.S. Grant on his tour of the world, and whom he declared,
in his judgment, one of the most able statesmen in the
world. 

 The significance of this bringing together of the ends of
the earth is that British, American, German and French
manufacturers are to have shortly as competitors people
who, until recently, were excellent customers; competitors
whose superior facilities will soon not only drive them out
of foreign markets, but invade their own home markets;
competitors who will thus take labor out of the hands of
their workmen, and deprive them of luxuries, and even take
the bread out of their mouths by reason of wage competition.
No wonder, in view of this, that the German Emperor
pictured the nations of Europe appalled by a specter

 <349> 

rising in the Orient and threatening the destruction of
civilization. 

 But it cannot be checked. It is a part of the inevitable, for
it operates under the law of Supply and Demand which
says, Buy the best you can obtain at the lowest possible
price--labor as well as merchandise. The only thing that
can and will cut short and stop the pressure now begun, and
which must grow more severe so long as the law of selfishness
continues, is the remedy which God has provided--the
Kingdom of God with its new law and complete reorganization
of society on the basis of love and equity. 

 If the people of Europe and America have had the whole
world for customers, not only for fabrics but also for machinery,
and yet have gotten to a place where the supply is
greater than the demand, and where millions of their population
seek employment in vain, even at low wages, what is
their prospect for the near future when more than double
the present number will be competitors? The natural increase
will also add to the dilemma. Nor would this outlook
be so unfavorable, so hopelessly dark, were it not for the
fact that these nearly seven hundred millions of new competitors
are the most tractable, patient and economical
people to be found in the world. If European and American
workmen can be controlled by Capital, much more can
these who have never known anything else than obedience
to masters.

 The Labor Outlook in England

 Mr. Justin McCarthy, well-known English writer, in an
article in Cosmopolis , once declared: 

 "The evils of pauperism and lack of employment ought
to strike more terror to the heart of England than any
alarm about foreign invasion. But English statesmanship
has never taken that error seriously, or even long troubled
about it. Even the one trouble caused by disputes between

 <350> 

employers and workingmen--the strike on the one hand
and the lock-out on the other--has been allowed to go on
without any real attempt at legislative remedy. The reason
is that any subject is allowed to engross our attention rather
than that of the condition of our own people." 

 Keir Hardie (Member of Parliament and Labor Leader)
in an interview some years ago is reported to have said: 

 "Trades-unionism is in a bad way in England. I sometimes
fear that it is practically dead. We workingmen are
learning that capital can use its money in organization, and
by using it beat us. Manufacturers have learned a way of
beating the men and the men are helpless. Trades unions
have not won an important strike in London in a long time.
Many of the once big unions are powerless. This is especially
true of the dockers. You remember the great dock
strike? Well, it killed the union that made it, and did not
help the men at all. The trades-union situation in London
is distressing. 

 "The Independent Labor Party is socialistic. We shall be
satisfied with nothing but Socialism, municipal Socialism,
national Socialism, industrial Socialism. We know what we
want, and we all want it. We do not want to fight for it, but
if we cannot get it in any other way we will fight for it, and
when we fight we shall fight with determination. The
avowed object of the Independent Labor Party is to bring
about an industrial commonwealth, founded on the socialization
of land and industrial capital. We believe that the
natural political divisions must be on economical lines. 

 "Of the wrongs of the present system, I should say that
the greatest single oppression upon British workingmen is
the irregularity and uncertainty of employment. You may
be aware that I have made this question a specialty, and
know that I am speaking facts when I say that in the British
islands there are over 1,000,000 able-bodied adult workers,
who are neither drunkards, loafers nor of less than average
intelligence, but who are still out of employment through
no fault of their own, and utterly unable to get work. Wages
appear to be higher than they were half a century ago, but

 <351> 

when the loss of time through lack of employment is taken
into consideration it is found that the condition of the
worker has really retrograded. A small, steady wage produces
greater comfort than a larger sum earned irregularly.
If the right to earn a living wage were secured to every
worker, most of the questions which vex us would be solved
by natural process. The situation is surely melancholy.
During the recent dreadful cold weather relief works were
opened at which men could have four hours' work at sweeping
the streets, at 6 pence an hour. Thousands gathered outside
the yard gates as early as 4 A.M. in order to be at the
front of the line. There they stood, shivering and shaking in
the cold, half-starved and filled with despair, until 8 A.M.,
when the yards were opened. The rush which followed was
little less than a riot. Men were literally trampled to death
in that horrible scramble for the opportunity to earn 2 shillings
(48 cents). The place was wrecked. Hungry men in a
solid mass, pushed on by thousands in the rear, crushed the
walls and gates in their anxiety to find employment. These
men were no loafers. 

 "The average wage of unskilled labor in London, even
when it keeps up to the trades-union standard, is only 6
pence an hour. In the provinces it is less. Careful study has
shown that nothing under 3 quineas a week will enable the
average family (two adults and three children) to enjoy
common comfort, not to mention luxuries. Very few workers
in England receive this sum or anything like it. That
skilled workman is fortunate who gets 2 guineas a week the
year round, and that laborer is lucky who manages to earn
24 shillings ($5.84) in the course of each seven days, one-third
of which must go for rent. So in the best-paid
classes of workers the family can only keep itself at the
poverty line. A very short period of enforced idleness is invariably
sufficient to drag them below it. Hence our vast
number of paupers. 

 "London contains now over 4,300,000 persons. Sixty
thousand families (300,000 persons) average a weekly income
per family of less than 18 shillings a week, and live in
a state of chronic want. One in every eight of the total population

 <352> 

of London dies in the workhouse or in the workhouse
infirmary. One in every sixteen of the present
population of London is at the present moment a recognized
pauper. Every day 43,000 children attend the board
schools, having gone without breakfast. Thirty thousand
persons have no homes other than the 4-penny lodging
houses or the casual ward." 

 The foregoing statistics show that a few years would be
ample allowance for the development of this competition.
Thus the Almighty is bringing the masses of all nations,
gradually, to a realization of the fact that soon or later the
interests of one must be the interests of the other--that each
must be his brother's keeper if he would preserve his own
welfare. 

 Nor is it wise or just to denounce Capital for doing the
very same thing that Labor does and has always done--
seeking its own advantage. Indeed, we can all see that some
of the poor are equally as selfish at heart as some of the rich;
we can even imagine that if some now poor were given the
positions of the wealthy, they would be more severely exacting
and less generous than their present masters. Let us not,
therefore, hate and denounce the rich, but instead hate and
denounce the selfishness general and particular which is responsible
for present conditions and evils. And, thoroughly
abhorring selfishness, let each resolve that by the Lord's
grace he will mortify (kill) his own inherent selfishness,
daily, and more and more cultivate the opposite quality of
love, and thus be conformed to the image of God's dear
Son, our Redeemer and Lord.

 Hon. Joseph Chamberlain's Prophetic Words 

 to British Workmen

 Note the views of Joseph Chamberlain, once Colonial
Secretary of Great Britain, and one of the shrewdest statesmen

 <353> 

of our day. In receiving a deputation of unemployed
shoemakers who came to advocate municipal workshops,
he showed them clearly that what they wanted would not
really aid them, except temporarily; that such shops would
merely oversupply the demand and throw others, now
doing fairly well, out of work, and that the true policy
would be to cultivate trade with the outside world, and thus
find customers for more boots, which would speedily bring
a demand for their services. He said: 

 "What you want to do is not to change the shop in which
the boots are made, but to increase the demand for boots. If
you can get some new demand for boots, not only those
who are now working but those out of employment may
find employment. That should be our great object. In addition
to the special point before me, you must remember
that, speaking generally, the great cure for this difficulty of want
of employment is to find new markets . We are pressed out of the
old markets (out of the neutral markets which used to be
supplied by Great Britain) by foreign competition. At the
same time, foreign Governments absolutely exclude our
goods from their own markets, and unless we can increase the
markets which are under our control, or find new ones, this
question of want of employment, already a very serious one, will become
one of the greatest possible magnitude, and I see the gravest reasons
for anxiety as to the complications which may possibly ensue . I
put the matter before you in these general terms; but I beg
you, when you hear criticisms upon the conduct of this
Government or of that, of this Commander or of that Commander,
in expanding the British Empire , I beg you to bear in
mind that it is not a Jingo question, which sometimes you
are induced to believe-- it is not a question of unreasonable aggression ,
but it is really a question of continuing to do that
which the English people have always done--to extend
their markets and relations with the waste places of the
earth; and unless that is done, and done continuously, I am certain
that, grave as are the evils now, we shall have at no distant time to
meet much more serious consequences ."

 <354> 

National Aggression as Related to Industrial Interests

 Here we have the secret of British aggression and empire-expansion.
It is not prompted merely by a desire to give
other nations wiser rulers and better governments, nor
merely by a love of acreage and power: it is done as a part of
the war of trade, the "industrial war." Nations are conquered,
not to pillage them as of old, but to serve them--to
secure their trade. In this warfare Great Britain has been
most successful; and, in consequence, her wealth is
enormous, and is invested far and near. The first nation to
have an oversupply, she first sought foreign markets, and
for a long time was the cotton and iron factory of the world
outside of Europe. The mechanical awakening which followed
the United States civil war in 1865 made this land for
a time the center of the world's attention and business. The
mechanical awakening spread to all civilized nations
turned their attention to finding outside demand. This is
the foreign competition to which Mr. Chamberlain refers. All
statesmen see what he points out; namely, that the markets
of the world are fast being stocked, and that machinery and
civilization are rapidly hastening the time when there will
be no more outside markets . And as he wisely declared, " grave as
are the evils now, we shall have at no distant time to meet much more
serious consequences ." 

 In 1896, Mr. Chamberlain, as Colonial Secretary for the
British Empire, had in London delegates from the British
Colonies who had come thousands of miles to confer with
him and each other respecting the best means of meeting
industrial competition. Ever since Great Britain found that
her workshops produced more wares than her population
could consume, and that she must seek her market abroad,
she has been the advocate of Free Trade, and, of course, has
kept her colonies as near to her free trade policy as practicable

 <355> 

without force. This conference was with a view to an
arrangement by which Great Britain and her many colonies
might erect a protective tariff wall about themselves
to measurably shut out the competition of the United
States, Germany, France and Japan. 

 The conquests of France, Italy and Great Britain in Africa
meant the same thing; that they feel the commercial
warfare severely, and see it increasing and would, perforce,
have some markets under their control . The following press
dispatch is in evidence on this subject: 

 "WASHINGTON, June 9, 1896--Taking as his starting point
the official announcement of the annexation by France of
Timbuctoo, the principal place in the Djallon country, a
district larger than the state of Pennsylvania and quite as
fertile, United States' Consul Strickland, at Goree-Dakar,
has made a most interesting report to the State Department
upon the dangers threatening United States' trade with Africa,
owing to the rapid extension of the colonial possessions
of the European nations. He shows how the French, by the
imposition of a discriminating duty of 7 per cent against
foreign goods, have monopolized the markets of the French
colonies, and have thus crushed out the lucrative and growing
trade which the United States already enjoyed in that
part of the world. He says that the process has now begun of
fortifying perhaps the whole continent of Africa against us
by protective tariffs; for, if one nation can even now do it
with effect, the remainder will in time have to in order to
equalize things among them." 

 Truly, men's hearts are failing them for fear and for looking
forward to those things coming upon the earth [society];
and they are preparing, as best they can, for what
they see coming. 

 But let no one suppose for a moment that the aforesaid
"expanding of the British Empire" and the other empires of
the earth, and the general war for trade, are inaugurated or
sustained solely for the purpose of supplying British, Italian

 <356> 

and French workmen with employment. Not at all! The
workman is merely an incidental. It is chiefly to enable
British capitalists to find new fields wherein to garner
profits, and to "heap together riches for the last days."
`James 5:3`

 The Social and Industrial War in Germany

 Herr Liebknecht, leader of the Social Democratic party
in the German Reichstag, who visited Great Britain in July
1896, submitted to an interview for the columns of the London
 Daily Chronicle , from which we extract the following: 

 "'Our Social Democratic party is the strongest single
party in the German Parliament. At the last election we
polled 1,880,000 votes. We are expecting a dissolution on
the question of expenditure on a great fleet, which the
Reichstag will not sanction. At that election we look forward
to polling another million votes.' 

 "'Then jingoism is not very strong in Germany?' 

 "'Jingoism does not exist in Germany. Of all the people
in Europe, the Germans are the most sick of militarism. We
Socialists are at the head of the movement against it.' 

 "'And do you think this movement against militarism is
extending throughout Europe?' 

 "'I am sure of it. In the Parliaments of France, Germany,
Belgium, Italy and Denmark the Socialist Deputies (and
we have a good many in each) are fighting it to the death.
When the International Congress takes place this year in
London, all the Socialist Deputies present will hold a meeting
for the purpose of arranging for common action. As for
Germany, it is being totally ruined by its military system.
We are a new country. Our manufactures are all young
and if we have to compete with England'-- 

 "'Then you, too, have a cry about foreign competition?' 

 "'Of course we have, only to us it is something very real.
We have, as I will show you, no liberty of the Press and no
liberty of public meeting. You, on the contrary, have both,
and that is how I account for the fact that the present economic

 <357> 

system is more deeply and firmly rooted in England
than anywhere else; and, above all, we have the doctrine of
the divine right of kings to contend against, and you English
found out two hundred years ago that the divine right
of kings and political liberty for the people could not exist
together.' 

 "'Then you look for great changes before long?' 

 "'I do. The present system in Germany is causing such
discontent that they must come.' 

 "'And now can you tell me anything about the economic
position of Germany? You have an agrarian question there,
as we have here.' 

 "'We have in Germany five million peasant proprietors,
and they are all going to ruin as fast as they can. Every one
of them--and I use the word advisedly--is mortgaged up to
and beyond the full value of his holding. Our peasantry live
on bread made from a mixture of rye and oats. In fact, food
of all kinds is cheaper in England than in Germany.' 

 "'And your manufactures?' 

 "'As a manufacturing country we are only just beginning .
Our present industrial system only dates from 1850, but already
its results are becoming far greater than in your
country. We are being rapidly divided into two classes--the
proletarians, and the capitalists and land-owners. Our
middle classes are being literally wiped out by the economic
conditions that obtain. They are being driven down into
the working classes, and to that more than to anything else
I attribute the extraordinary success of our party. 

 "'You must remember that we have not two sharply-defined
parties, as you have in England. We Social Democrats
work with any party, if we can get anything for
ourselves. We have only three great parties: the others may
be disregarded. There is our party, the Conservatives and
the Catholic Center party. Our Conservatives are very different
from yours. They want to go back to feudalism and
reaction of the worst type. Economic conditions are splitting
up the Center party, and part will come over to us and
the rest go to the Conservatives. And then we shall see what
will happen.'

 <358> 

 "Herr Liebknecht gave the history of the Socialist movement.
The rapidity of the growth of Social Democracy in
Germany was caused by the newness of industrial commercialism
in that country, and the fierce competition
which Germany had had to face to keep pace with England
and France in the struggle for commercial supremacy." 

 It will be noticed that the questions recognized by this
able man as those which press upon the people and are
 causing the distress and the division of the people into two
classes--the poor and the rich--are thus clearly stated as being
(1) the Agrarian or land question, especially affecting
agriculturalists; (2) the Economic question, or the money
question, including the relationship between Capital and
Labor; (3) the Industrial question, or question of finding
profitable employment for mechanics--related to foreign
and home competition, supply and demand, etc. These are
the same questions which are perplexing every civilized nation,
and preparing for the approaching world-wide
trouble--revolution, anarchy--preparatory for the Millennial
Kingdom. 

 Herr Liebknecht was a delegate to the Trades Union
Congress (London, July, 1896). At that Convention the following
resolution was passed: 

 "That this international meeting of workers (recognizing
that peace between the nations of the world is an essential
foundation of international brotherhood and human progress,
and believing that wars are not desired by the peoples
of the earth, but are caused by the greed and selfishness of
the ruling and privileged classes with the single view to obtain
the control of the markets of the world in their own
interests and against all the real interests of the workers),
hereby declares that between the workers of different nationalities
there is absolutely no quarrel, and that their
one common enemy is the capitalist and landlord class, and
the only way of preventing wars and ensuring peace is the
abolition of the capitalist and landlord system of society in
which wars have their root, and it therefore pledges itself to

 <359> 

work for the only way in which that system can be overthrown--
the socialization of the means of production, distribution
and exchange; it further declares that till this is
accomplished every dispute between nations should be settled
by arbitration instead of by the brutality of the force of
arms; further, this meeting recognizes that the establishment
of an International Eight Hours Day for all workers
is the most immediate step towards their ultimate
emancipation, and urges upon the Governments of all
countries the necessity of having a working day of eight
hours by legal enactment; and, further, considering that
the working class can only bring about their economic and
social emancipation by their taking over the political machinery
of today in the hands of the capitalist class; and,
considering that in all countries large numbers of workingmen
and all working women do not possess the vote and
cannot take part in political action, this meeting of workers
declares for and pledges itself to use every endeavor to
obtain universal suffrage."

 Humanity Attacked from Still Another Quarter 

 Giants in These Days

 Another result of competition has been the organization
of large corporations for commerce and manufacturing.
These are important elements in preparation for the coming
"fire." Before these giant corporations the small shops
and stores are being rapidly crowded out, because they can
neither buy nor sell as profitably as can the large concerns.
These large concerns, in turn, being able to do more business
than there is for them, are forming combinations,
called Trusts. These, originally organized to prevent competition
from destroying all but the largest of its kind, are
found to work very satisfactorily to those whose capital and
management they represent; and the plan is spreading--the
Great Republic leading the world in this direction. Notice
the following list published in the New York World , Sept. 2,
1896, under the caption--"The Growth of Trusts."

 <360> 

 "List of 139 Combinations to Regulate Production, 

 Fix Prices, Monopolize Trade and Rob the People 

 in Defiance of Law."

 Title Capital

Dressed Beef and Provision Trust...........$100,000,000
Sugar Trust, New York...................... 75,000,000
Lead Trust................................. 30,000,000
Rubber Trust, New Jersey................... 50,000,000
Gossamer Rubber Trust...................... 12,000,000
Anthracite Coal Combine, Pennsylvania...... *85,000,000
Axe Trust.................................. 15,000,000
Barbed Wire Trust, Chicago................. *10,000,000
Biscuit and Cracker Trust.................. 12,000,000
Bolt and Nut Trust......................... *10,000,000
Boiler Trust, Pittsburgh, Pa............... *15,000,000
Borax Trust, Pennsylvania.................. *2,000,000
Broom Trust, Chicago....................... *2,500,000
Brush Trust, Ohio.......................... *2,000,000
Button Trust............................... *3,000,000
Carbon Candle Trust, Cleveland............. *3,000,000
Cartridge Trust............................ *10,000,000
Casket and Burial Goods Trust.............. *1,000,000
Castor Oil Trust, St. Louis................ 500,000
Celluloid Trust............................ 8,000,000
Cigarette Trust, New York.................. 25,000,000
Condensed Milk Trust, Illinois............. 15,000,000
Copper Ingot Trust......................... *20,000,000
Sheet Copper Trust......................... *40,000,000
Cordage Trust, New Jersey.................. 35,000,000
Crockery Trust............................. *15,000,000
Cotton Duck Trust.......................... 10,000,000
Cotton-Seed Oil Trust...................... 20,000,000
Cotton Thread Combine, New Jersey.......... 7,000,000
Electric Supply Trust...................... *10,000,000
Flint Glass Trust, Pennsylvania............ 8,000,000
Fruit Jar Trust............................ *1,000,000
Galvanized Iron Steel Trust, Pennsylvania.. *2,000,000
Glove Trust, New York...................... *2,000,000
----------
Estimated.
 <361> 

 Title Capital
Harvester Trust............................ *$1,500,000
Hinge Trust................................ 1,000,000
Indurated Fibre Trust...................... 500,000
Leather Board Trust........................ *500,000
Lime Trust................................. *3,000,000
Linseed Oil Trust.......................... 18,000,000
Lithograph Trust, New Jersey............... 11,500,000
Locomotive Tire Trust...................... *2,000,000
Marble Combine............................. *20,000,000
Match Trust, Chicago....................... 8,000,000
Morocco Leather Trust...................... *2,000,000
Oatmeal Trust, Ohio........................ *3,500,000
Oilcloth Trust............................. *3,500,000
Paper Bag Trust............................ 2,500,000
Pitch Trust................................ *10,000,000
Plate Glass Trust, Pittsburgh, Pa.......... *8,000,000
Pocket Cutlery Trust....................... *2,000,000
Powder Trust............................... 1,500,000
Preservers' Trust, West Virginia........... *8,000,000
Pulp Trust................................. *5,000,000
Rice Trust, Chicago........................ 2,500,000
Safe Trust................................. 2,500,000
Salt Trust................................. *1,000,000
Sandstone Trust, New York.................. *1,000,000
Sanitary Ware Trust, Trenton, N.J.......... 3,000,000
Sandpaper Trust............................ *250,000
Sash, Door and Blind Trust................. *1,500,000
Saw Trust, Pennsylvania.................... 5,000,000
School Book Trust, New York................ *2,000,000
School Furniture Trust, Chicago............ 15,000,000
Sewer Pipe Trust........................... 2,000,000
Skewer Trust............................... 60,000
Smelters' Trust, Chicago................... 25,000,000
Smith Trust, Michigan...................... *500,000
Soap Trust................................. *500,000
Soda-Water Apparatus Trust, Trenton, N.J... 3,750,000
Spool, Bobbin and Shuttle Trust............ 2,500,000
Sponge Trust............................... *500,000
----------
*Estimated.

 <362> 

 Title Capital
Starch Trust, Kentucky..................... $10,000,000
Merchants' Steel Trust..................... 25,000,000
Steel Rail Trust........................... *60,000,000
Stove Board Trust, Grand Rapids, Mich...... 200,000
Straw Board Trust, Cleveland, Ohio......... *8,000,000
Structural Steel Trust..................... *5,000,000
Teazle Trust............................... *200,000
Sheet Steel Trust.......................... *2,000,000
Tombstone Trust............................ 100,000
Trunk Trust................................ 2,500,000
Tube Trust, New Jersey..................... 11,500,000
Type Trust................................. 6,000,000
Umbrella Trust............................. *8,000,000
Vapor Stove Trust.......................... *1,000,000
Wall Paper Trust, New York................. 20,000,000
Watch Trust................................ 30,000,000
Wheel Trust................................ *1,000,000
Whip Trust................................. *500,000
Window Glass Trust......................... *20,000,000
Wire Trust................................. *10,000,000
Wood Screw Trust........................... *10,000,000
Wool Hat Trust, New Jersey................. *1,500,000
Wrapping Paper Trust....................... *1,000,000
Yellow Pine Trust.......................... *2,000,000
Patent Leather Trust....................... 5,000,000
Dye and Chemical Combine................... *2,000,000
Lumber Trust............................... *2,000,000
Rock Salt Combination...................... 5,000,000
Naval Stores Combine....................... *1,000,000
Green Glass Trust.......................... *4,000,000
Locomotive Trust........................... *5,000,000
Envelope Combine........................... 5,000,000
Ribbon Trust............................... *18,000,000
Iron and Coal Trust........................ 10,000,000
Cotton Press Trust......................... *6,000,000
Tack Trust................................. *3,000,000
Clothes-Wringer Trust...................... *2,000,000
Snow Shovel Trust.......................... *200,000
----------
*Estimated.

 <363> 

 Title Capital
The Iron League (Trust)....................*$60,000,000
Paper Box Trust............................ *5,000,000
Bituminous Coal Trust...................... *15,000,000
Alcohol Trust.............................. *5,000,000
Confectioners' Trust....................... *2,000,000
Gas Trust.................................. *7,000,000
Acid Trust................................. *2,000,000
Manilla Tissue Trust....................... *2,000,000
Carnegie Trust............................. 25,000,000
Illinois Steel Trust....................... *50,000,000
Brass Trust................................ 10,000,000
Hop Combine................................ *500,000
Flour Trust, New York...................... 7,500,000
American Corn Harvesters' Trust............ *50,000,000
Pork Combine, Missouri..................... *20,000,000
Colorado Coal Combine...................... 20,000,000
Bleachery Combine.......................... *10,000,000
Paint Combine, New York.................... *2,000,000
Buckwheat Trust, New Jersey................ 5,000,000
Fur Combine, New Jersey.................... 10,000,000
Tissue Paper Trust......................... *10,000,000
Cash Register Trust........................ *10,000,000
Western Flour Trust........................ 10,000,000
Steel and Iron Combine..................... 4,000,000
Electrical Combine No. 2................... 1,800,000
Rubber Trust No. 2......................... 7,000,000
Tobacco Combination........................ 2,500,000 

 ------------- 

 Total Capital.................$1,507,060,000

 The same issue of the same journal notes the power and
tendency of one of these trusts in the following editorial,
under the caption, "What the Coal Advance means:" 

 "The addition of $1.50 to the price of every ton of anthracite
coal means that the eleven members of the Coal
Trust will pocket not less than fifty and perhaps more than
sixty millions of dollars. On the basis of last fall's competition
and resulting fair prices, this money rightfully belongs
to those who use coal.
----------
*Estimated.

 <364> 

 "The enormous addition to the cost of coal means that
many manufacturers who were going to start again this fall
cannot do so because they cannot add such a large item to
the cost of their product and still compete with those who
get coal at natural prices. It means that many manufacturers
will cut wages to make up for this increase in the cost
of production. It means that every householder of moderate
means will pinch on some modest luxury or comfort. He
must buy coal, and as the officers he has helped to elect will
not enforce the law, he must pay the trust's prices. It means
finally that the poor will have to buy less coal. The old
prices were hard enough. The new prices are sharply restrictive.
And so the poor must shiver in the coming winter. 

 "On the one side is more luxury for a few. On the other
side is discomfort, and in thousands of cases positive misery,
for the many. Between the two is the broken and dishonored
law." 

 Take another illustration of the power of trusts. In the
Spring of 1895 the Cotton Tie Trust was formed. (The cotton
tie is a plain band of iron used in baling cotton.) The
price at that time was seventy cents a hundred. The following
year the trust concluded that it would make a little extra
profit, and advanced the price to $1.40 per hundred--so
near the time for baling cotton that foreign ties could not be
imported in season. 

 All trusts have not similarly abused their power; possibly
favorable opportunities have not yet been offered to all; but
no one will dispute that "the common people," the masses,
are in serious danger of injury at the hands of such giant
corporations. All know what to fear from power and selfishness
in an individual, and these "giant" trusts not only
have immensely more power and influence than individuals,
but in addition, they have no consciences. It has become
a proverb that "Corporations have no souls." 

 We clip the following dispatch to the Pittsburgh Post in illustration
of--

 <365> 

 The Profits of Trusts

 "NEW YORK, Nov. 5, 1896--The liquidating trustees of
the Standard Oil Trust met today and declared the regular
quarterly dividend of $3 per share and $2 per share additional,
payable December 15. The total original issue of
Standard Oil Trust certificates was $97,250,000. During
the fiscal year just closing there has been 31 per cent in dividends
declared, making a total distribution of earnings
amounting to $30,149,500. During the same period the
American Sugar Refining Company, known as the sugar
trust, has paid $7,023,920 in dividends. In addition to these
payments of earnings to stockholders, the trust is said to
have a surplus in raw sugar, bills receivable and cash
amounting to about $30,000,000." 

 The same journal, subsequently, said editorially as
follows: 

 "The Wire Nail Trust was probably one of the most rascally
combinations to plunder and extort money from the
people that was ever gotten up in this country. It defied the
laws, bribed, bullied and ruined competitors, and ruled the
trade with autocratic powers. Having done this, and advanced
prices from two hundred to three hundred per cent,
it divided millions among its members. No anarchy here, of
course. In fact, it is the anarchists who protest against such
robbery and defiance of law. So at least thinks Mr. A. C.
Faust, of New Jersey, of the nail trust, who writes the World 
that its exposures of the enormities of the trust 'feed the
flame of popular discontent.' This is getting things down to
a fine point. The illegal and plundering trusts are to be allowed
free sway, and attempts to hold them in check are not
to be tolerated because 'they feed the flame of popular discontent.'
On one side we have the people of the country,
and on the other the licensed robbers--the trusts. But there
must be no exposures or protest, or the 'flame of popular
discontent' will make it hard for the trusts. Could impudence
and arrogance go further? 

 "The Coal Trust in the anthracite product is now plundering
the people at the rate of fifty million dollars a year
by an advanced price of $1.50 per ton. Rev. Dr. Parkhurst

 <366> 

paid his respects the other day to this particular band in
these words: 'If the coal companies or coal combines or coal
trusts use their power to the end of draining off into their
own treasury as much of the poor man's money as they can
or dare, to the impoverishment of the poor, to the reduction
of their comfort and to the sapping of the currents of health
and life, then such companies are

 Possessed of the Demon of Theft and Murder. 

And this is no more applicable to dealers in coal than to the
dealers in any other commodity.' 

 "While Rev. Dr. Parkhurst was denouncing them as 'possessed
by the demon of theft and murder,' another New
York preacher, Rev. Dr. Heber Newton, to velvet pews and
a millionaire flock, praised the trusts as a necessary and
beneficent part of our advancing civilization." 

 Anent the sudden drop in the price of steel rails from $25
to $17 per ton the Allegheny Evening Record said: 

 "The great 'Steel Pool,' formed to keep up prices, is practically
smashed. This gigantic combination of capital and
power, made to control the output of one of the greatest industries
of America, to run prices up or down by its simple
mandate, to tax consumers at its pleasure, and to the limit
of expediency, is to be devoured by a combination still
more gigantic, still more powerful, still more wealthy.
Rockefeller and Carnegie have seized the steel industry of
America. The event is epochal. The cut in the price of steel
rails from $25 to $17 a ton, the lowest figure at which they
have ever been sold, marks an era in the country's economy.
So far it is a case of trust eat trust, and the railroads are the
gainers. 

 "It is safe to say that neither Mr. Rockefeller nor Mr.
Carnegie has been led into their great enterprise by any
considerations of sentiment for the public. They saw a
chance to crush competition and they took advantage of it.
They now own the most remarkable source of supply in the
world, the Mesaba range, above Duluth, described as a region
where it is not necessary to delve at vast expense, but
merely to scoop the ore off the surface. Rockefeller has
strengthened his advantage in securing this source of supply

 <367> 

by building a fleet of barges of immense capacity to
carry his raw material to the docks of Lake Erie. When he
completed his cycle by the alliance with Carnegie, with his
furnaces and mills, he had the 'Railmakers' Association' at
his mercy. The whole affair has been carried out by a masterly
combining of existing facilities. The present result, at
least, is a benefit to great numbers of people. Whether
Messrs. Rockefeller and Carnegie, having gotten this vast
power into their hands, will be content to reap reasonable
profits and let the public benefit, or will, once having
crushed their opponents, use this power for ruthless extortion,
is a grave problem. The fact that they have the power
is a menace in itself." 

 The following item was circulated widely at the time, but
is worthy of notice here in considering this subject: 

 "KANSAS CITY, MO., Nov. 26, 1896--Ex-Governor David
R. Francis, now Secretary of the Interior, sent the following
letter to a little party of gold standard men who held a banquet
at the Midland Hotel last night: 

 Department of the Interior, 

 Washington, D.C., Nov. 19, 1896 

 "Gentlemen: I have just received your invitation of the
25th, and regret I cannot attend the ratification of the
sound money victory this evening....If some legislation is
not enacted to check the growing influence of wealth and to
circumscribe the powers of the trusts and monopolies, there
will be an uprising of the people before the close of the century
which will endanger our very institutions. 

 DAVID R. FRANCIS" 

 The following was clipped from the London Spectator : 

 "We have in our hands a decision by Judge Russell, of
the New York Supreme Court, which shows the extent to
which the 'Trust' system, or system of using capital to create
monopolies, is pushed in the United States. A National
Wholesale Druggists' Association has been formed which
includes almost every large drug-dealer in the Union, and
which fixes the price of drugs. If any private dealer undersells
the Association the latter warns the whole trade by circular
not to deal with him, and as a rule succeeds in ruining

 <368> 

the business of the refractory firm. John D. Park and Sons'
Company resolved to resist the dictation, and applied for
an injunction, which was refused in the particular instance,
but granted as a general principle, all men being enjoined
to abstain from 'conspiring' to enforce 'a restraint of
trade.' The case is an extreme one, because it is clear that a
Trust of the kind is, or may be, playing with human life. It
does not matter much if they raise the price of patent medicines,
which seems to have been the specific grievance, to a
guinea a drop; but suppose they put drugs like quinine,
opium, or the aperients out of the reach of the poor. It will
be remembered that Mr. Bryan's followers place the Trust
system in the forefront of their charges against capital, and
cases like this give them an argumentative foothold."

 Trusts in England 

 Although trusts may be termed an American invention,
we quote the following from the London Spectator showing
that they are not exclusively American. The writer says: 

 "Trusts are beginning to take possession of some of our
British trades. At the present time there exists--with its
headquarters in Birmingham--a combination or trust in
the metallic bedstead trade throughout Great Britain,
which is so cleverly arranged that it is practically impossible
for any outsider to start making brass or iron bedsteads
unless he joins the combination, and even then he
has to sue for admittance, which will probably be denied
him. If, however, he tried to start independently of it, he
would be unable to buy his raw material or get any workmen
used to the trade, as all the makers of iron and brass for
bedsteads have agreed to only supply the combination, and
the workmen are all pledged by their Union to work only
for makers belonging to it. Consumers have therefore to
look to foreign competition alone if prices are to be kept
down. This bedstead trust is at present successful, hence
many other local trades are now emulating its example." 

 Controlling capital of hundreds of millions of dollars,

 <369> 

these combinations or trusts are indeed giants; and if matters
continue for a few years, as they have during the past
twenty, they will soon control the world with the financial
lever. Soon they will have the power, not only to dictate the
prices of the goods consumed by the world, but, being the
chief employers of labor, they will have the control of
wages. 

 True, these combinations of capital have in the past accomplished
great enterprises which single individuals could
not have accomplished so quickly or so well. Indeed, private
corporative enterprise has taken and successfully carried
risks which the public would have condemned and
defeated if undertaken by the government. We are not to be
understood as holding up vast accumulations of capital to
wholesale condemnation; but we are pointing out that every
year's experience not only adds largely to their financial
power, but also to their sagacity, and that we are rapidly
nearing the point where the people's interests and very liberties
are threatened, if indeed we are not already there. Everybody
says, Something must be done! but what to do
nobody knows. The fact is, mankind is helplessly at the
mercy of these giant outgrowths of the present selfish social
system, and the only hope is in God. 

 True, also, these giants are usually headed by men of
ability who thus far generally seem disposed to use their
power in moderation. Nevertheless, the power is being concentrated;
and the ability, guided in the main by selfishness,
will be likely from time to time to tighten the screws
upon their servants and the public as opportunities permit
and circumstances favor. 

 These giants threaten the human family now as literal giants
threatened it over four thousand years ago. Those giants
were "men of renown"--men of wonderful ability and
sagacity, above the fallen Adamic race; they were a hybrid

 <370> 

race, the result of a new vitality united to the Adamic stock.
So with these modern corporate giants: they are great, powerful
and cunning, to an extent which discourages the
thought of their being conquered without divine interference.
Their marvelous powers have never yet been fully
called into service. These giants, too, are hybrid: they are
begotten by a wisdom that owes its existence to Christian
civilization and enlightenment acting in combination with
the selfish hearts of fallen men. 

 But man's necessity and God's opportunity are simultaneously
drawing near; and as the giants of "the world that
was before the flood" were swept away in the flood of waters,
so these corporative giants are to be swept away in the
coming flood of fire--the symbolic "fire of God's jealousy"
or indignation, already kindling; "a time of trouble such as
was not since there was a nation." In that "fire" will be consumed
all the giants of vice and selfishness; they will fall,
and will never rise again. `Isa. 26:13,14`; `Zeph. 3:8,9`

 Barbaric Slavery Versus Civilized Bondage 

 Contrast for a moment the past with the present and future,
respecting the supply of labor and the demand for it.
It is only within the last century that the slave trade has
been generally broken up and slavery abolished. At one
time it was general, but it gradually merged into serfdom
throughout Europe and Asia. Slavery was abolished in
Great Britain no longer ago than the year 1838, the general
government paying to the slave-holders the sum of
#20,000,000, or nearly $100,000,000 indemnity. France
emancipated her slaves in 1848. In the United States slavery
continued in the southern states until 1863. It cannot
be denied that Christian voices and Christian pens had

 <371> 

much to do with putting a stop to human slavery; but,
on the other hand, it should be noticed that the changing
conditions of the labor market of the world helped to give
the majority a new view of the matter, and with the
indemnity fund helped to reconcile the slave owners to
the new order of things. Christian voices and pens merely
hastened the abolition of slavery; but it would have come
later, anyway. 

 Slavery dies a natural death under the modern selfish
competitive system backed by mechanical inventions and
the growth of population. Aside entirely from moral and religious
considerations, it would now be impossible to make
slavery general in populous, civilized countries: it would
not pay financially. (1) Because machinery has, to a large
degree, taken the place of non-intelligent, as well as of intelligent,
labor. (2) Because an intelligent servant can do
more and better work than an unintelligent one. (3) Because
to civilize and even slightly educate slaves would
make their services cost more than free labor; besides which
the more intelligent and efficient slaves would be more difficult
to control and use profitably than those nominally
free, but bound hand and foot by necessity. In a word, the
worldly-wise have learned that wars for spoils of enemies,
and for slaves, are less profitable than wars of commercial
competition whose results are better, as well as larger; and
that the free "slaves of necessity" are the cheaper and more
capable ones. 

 If already free, intelligent labor is cheaper than ignorant
slave-labor, and if the whole world is waking up in intelligence,
as well as rapidly increasing in numbers, it is evident
that the present social system is as certain to work its
own destruction as would an engine under a full head of
steam and without a check or governor.

 <372> 

 Since society is at present organized upon the principle of
supply and demand, there is no check, no governor, upon
the world's selfish competition. The entire structure is built
upon that principle: the selfish pressure, the force pressing
society downward, grows stronger and stronger daily. With
the masses matters will continue thus, to press down lower
and lower, step by step, until the social collapse in anarchy
is realized.

 Humanity Between the Upper and Nether 

 Millstones

 It is becoming more and more manifest to the masses of
men that in the present order of things they are between a
nether and an upper millstone whose rapid revolutions
must eventually, and at no distant date, grind them down
to a miserable and ignoble serfdom, unless interfered with
in some way. Such, indeed, is the actual condition of things:
human necessity is the feed-pipe which presses the masses
between the millstones; the lower millstone is the fixed law
of supply and demand which is crowding the rapidly increasing
and growingly intelligent population of the world
closer and closer to the pressure of the upper millstone of
organized selfishness, driven by the giant power of mechanical
slaves, assisted by the cogs and levers and pulleys of financial
combinations, trusts and monopolies. (It is
pertinent, that the Bureau of Statistics at Berlin estimated
in 1887 that the steam engines (power slaves) then at work
in the world represented approximately one thousand million
men, or three times the working population of the
earth; and the steam and electric powers have probably
more than doubled since then. Yet these engines are nearly
all in civilized lands, whose populations represent only
about one-fifth of the total.) Another part of the driving
power of the upper millstone is its fly-wheel, ponderous

 <373> 

with the weight of concentrated and hitherto undreamed of
wealth and selfishly quickened and trained brain power. As
partially illustrating the result of the grinding process, we
note a report that in London, Eng., there were 938,293
poor, 316,834 very poor and 37,610 of the most destitute--a
total of 1,292,737, or nearly one-third of the population of
the greatest city in the world living in poverty. Official figures
for Scotland have shown that one-third of the families
lived in one room, and more than one-third in only two
rooms; that in the city of New York during a severe winter
21,000 men, women and children were evicted because
unable to pay their rent; and that in a single year 3,819 of
its inhabitants were buried in the "potter's field," too poor
to either live or die decently. This, remember, in the very
city which has already been shown to number among its
citizens thousands of millionaires. 

 A writer in The American Magazine of Civics , Mr. J. A. Collins,
once discussed the subject of Decadence of American
Home Ownership, in the light of the U.S. census. At the
outset he tells us to be prepared for startling facts, and for
threatening and dangerous indications. We quote as
follows: 

 "A few decades ago the great bulk of the population was
made up of home-owners, and their homes were practically
free from incumbrance; today the vast bulk of the population
are tenants." 

 Since the occupant of a mortgaged home is virtually but
a tenant of the mortgagee, he finds 84 per cent of the families
of this nation virtually tenants, and adds: 

 "Think of this startling result having been produced in so
short a time, with the vast domain of free lands in the West
open to settlers, with the great fields of industry open and
offering employment at good pay; and then consider what
is to be the result with the great West all occupied, or its
lands all monopolized, a population increased by the addition

 <374> 

of millions, both by natural increase and by immigration,
the mineral lands and mines controlled by syndicates
of foreign capital; the transportation system controlled in
the interest of a few millionaire owners; the manufactures
operated by great corporations in their own interest; with
the public lands exhausted, and the home sites monopolized
and held by speculators beyond the reach of the industrial
masses." 

 Comparing these figures with European statistics, Mr.
Collins concludes that conditions under the greatest Republic
on earth are less favorable than in Europe, except
the richest and most enlightened there--Great Britain. But
Mr. Collins' figures are misleading unless it be remembered
that thousands of these mortgaged homes are owned by
young people (who in Europe would live with their parents)
and by immigrants who buy on the "instalment
plan." The bare truth, however, is bad enough. With the
increasing pressure of the times few of the present many
mortgages will ever be cleared off, except by the sheriff. 

 Few probably realize how very cheaply human strength
and time are sometimes sold; and those who realize it know
not how to remedy the evil, and are busy avoiding its
clutches themselves. In all large cities of the world there are
thousands known as "sweaters," who work harder and for
longer hours for the bare necessities of life, than did the majority
of the southern slaves. Nominally they have their liberty,
but actually they are slaves, the slaves of necessity,
having liberty to will, but little liberty to do, for themselves
or others. 

 We clip the following from the (Pittsburgh) Presbyterian
Banner on this subject: 

 "The sweater system had its birth and growth in foreign
lands before it was transplanted to American soil, bringing
its curse with it. It is not confined to the departments of
ready-made clothing, but it includes all others which are

 <375> 

worked by a middleman. The middleman or contractor engages
to procure goods for the merchant at a certain price,
and in order to supply the great buying public with bargains
and at the same time give the dealer and the middleman
their profits, this price must be fixed at a low rate, and
the poor workmen must suffer. 

 "In England almost every business is worked on this
basis. The boot and shoe trade, the fur trade, the cabinet
and upholstery trade, and many others, have come within
the scope of the middleman, and the people are ground
down to starvation wages. But it is of the ready-made clothing
trade in our own land we mean to speak. In 1886 there
were but ten sweater shops in New York, now there are
many hundreds, and the same is true of the city of Chicago
also, while other cities have their share. These shops are for
the most part in the hands of Jews, and those in Boston and
New York have the advantage over their brothers farther
west in that they can take advantage of foreigners, freshly
arrived, who cannot speak the language and are therefore
easily imposed on. These employees are taken, crowded
into small, illy-ventilated rooms, sometimes twenty or
thirty in a room large enough for eight workers, where they
often have to cook, eat and live, toiling for eighteen and
twenty hours a day to earn enough to keep them alive. 

 "The prices paid for this kind of work are a disgrace to
humanity. Men by hard work may earn from two to four
dollars a week. The following figures are given by one who
has made a study of the matter and who obtained his information
from one of the 'boss sweaters' who gave these prices
as what he received from the dealer:

For making overcoats,...........................$ .76 to $2.50
For making business coats,...................... .32 to 1.50
For making trousers,............................ .25 to .75
For making vests (per dozen),................... 1.00 to 3.00
For making knee pants (per dozen),.............. .50 to .75
For making calico shirts (per dozen),........... .30 to .45

 "A large percentage is taken from this list of prices by the
boss sweater as his profit, and after deducting the cost of
 <376> 

carting, which the workman pays, it can easily be imagined
how hard and how long men and women must labor to obtain
the ordinary necessities of life. For knee pants, for
which the 'boss' gets sixty-five cents a dozen from the manufacturer,
the sweater gets only thirty-five cents. 

 "The maker gets ten cents for making summer trousers,
and in order to complete six pairs must work nearly eighteen
hours. The cloaks are made by fifteen persons, each one
doing a part. Overalls, sixty cents a dozen pairs. These are a
few examples, and any woman who knows anything about
sewing or making clothes, knows the amount of labor involved. 

 "But there is retribution in all things, and sometimes the
innocent or thoughtless must suffer as well as the guilty.
This clothing is made under the worst conditions of cleanliness.
It is made in rooms sometimes not fit for human occupancy
and which are reeking with germs of disease. In
Chicago, during this year, a visitor saw in one of these shops
four people working on cloaks, all of whom had scarlet fever,
and in another place a child lay dead of the same disease,
while the work went on around it, and the contagion
was inevitably spread." 

 "Alas that gold should be so dear, 

 And flesh and blood so cheap." 

 The numbers of the miserably poor are rapidly increasing,
and, as has been shown, competition is crowding the
whole race down hill, except the fortunate few who have secured
machinery or real estate; and their wealth and power
correspondingly advance, until it seems as though the billionaire
might soon be looked for if present conditions
continue. 

 That such a condition of things should continue forever
is not possible; even the operation of the natural law of
cause and effect would eventually bring retribution. Nor
could we expect that the justice of God, which arranged
that law, would permit such conditions forever. God,
through Christ, has redeemed, and has espoused the cause
of our unworthy humanity, and the time for its deliverance

 <377> 

from selfishness and the general power of the evil one is
nigh at hand. `Rom. 8:19-23` 

 The following, from a Western journal some years ago,
clearly represented the situation at that time, and which
today is still more appalling. It said: 

 "The unemployed in this country today number two
millions. Those dependent upon them probably number
four times as many more. 

 "Perhaps you have heard this before. I want you to think
about it until you realize what it means. It means that under
'the best government in the world,' with 'the best banking
system the world ever saw,' and everything else at the
top notch, and with unparalleled productions of food and
every other comfort and luxury of existence, one-seventh of
our population has been reduced to absolute beggary, as
the only alternative to starvation. People are going hungry
in sight of warehouses and elevators filled with grain that
can't be sold for enough to pay the cost of raising. People
are shivering and almost naked in the shadow of store
rooms filled to bursting with clothing of every sort. People
are cold and fireless, with hundreds of millions of tons of
coal easily accessible in thousands of mines. And the shoemakers
who are idle would be glad to go to work and make
shoes for the men who mine the coal in exchange for fuel.
So would the latter be glad to toil in the mines to get shoes.
Likewise the half-clad farmer in Kansas, who is unable to
sell his wheat to pay for the harvesting and threshing bills,
would be delighted to exchange it with the men in the eastern
factories who spin and weave the cloth he needs. 

 "It is not lack of natural resources that troubles the country
today. It is not inability or unwillingness on the part of
the two millions of idle men to labor and produce desirable
and useful things. It is simply that the instruments of production
and the means of exchange are congested in the
hands of a few. How unwholesome a state of affairs this is
we are beginning to realize; and we shall understand it
more and more fully as the congestion grows more severe.
People are idle, cold and starving because they cannot exchange
the products of their labor. In view of such results as

 <378> 

this, is not our boasted present day civilization pretty near
a dead failure? The unemployed in this country formed in
ranks four abreast and six feet apart would make a line six
hundred miles long. Those who depend upon them for subsistence
would in the same order reach 2,400 miles. This
army thus formed would extend from the Atlantic to the
Pacific--from Sandy Hook to the Golden Gate. 

 "If the intellect of the race is not capable of devising a
better industrial system than this, we might as well admit
that humanity is the greatest failure of the universe. [Yes,
that is just where divine providence is leading: men must
learn their own impotence and the true Master, just as every
colt must be "broken" before it is of value.] The most
outrageous and cruel thing in all the ages, is the present attempt
to maintain an industrial army to fight the battles of
our plutocratic kings without making any provisions for its
maintenance during the periods in which services are not
needed." 

 The above was written during the period of the most
serious depression incident to "tariff tinkering," and happily
is not the normal condition. However, there is no
knowing when it may be repeated. Nevertheless, the Harrisburg
Patriot , of the same year, gave the following figures under
the caption, "The Number of the Unemployed": 

 "There are 10,000 laborers out of work in Boston; in
Worcester 7,000 are unemployed; in New Haven 7,000; in
Providence 9,600; in New York City 100,000. Utica is a
small city, but the unemployed number 16,000; in Paterson,
N.J., one-half of the people are idle; in Philadelphia
15,000; in Baltimore 10,000; in Wheeling 3,000; in Cincinnati
6,000; in Cleveland 8,000; in Columbus 4,000; in Indianapolis
5,000; in Terre Haute 2,500; in Chicago
200,000; in Detroit 25,000; in Milwaukee 20,000; in Minneapolis
6,000; in St. Louis 80,000; in St. Joseph 2,000; in
Omaha 2,000; in Butte City, Mont. 5,000; in San Francisco
15,000." 

 We give below an extract from The Coming Nation , entitled
"A Problem You Must Solve." It shows how very plainly

 <379> 

some men see the present situation. All these warning voices
do but reiterate the solemn counsel of the inspired prophet,
"Be wise now, therefore, O ye kings [all in any measure of
authority and power]; be instructed, ye judges of the
earth." It says: 

 "You will admit that new machines are rapidly displacing
workmen. The claim that the making and caring
for these new machines employs the number thus thrown
out will not stand; for if that were true there would be no
gain in the use of machines. The fact stands out so prominently
that hundreds of thousands of men are now idle because
machines are doing the work they formerly did, that
any man must recognize it, if he will think but a moment.
These men out of work do not buy as many goods as when
employed, and this decreases the demand for goods, and thus
prevents many more workmen from being employed, increases
the number out of work and stops more purchasing. 

 "What are you going to do with these unemployed? That
prices of goods, as a whole, are being cheapened, does not
give these men employment. There is no occupation open
to them, for all occupations are glutted with men, for the
same reason. You can't kill them (unless they strike), and
there is nowhere for them to go. In all seriousness I ask,
what are you going to do with them? Skilled farmers are
bankrupting, so what show would these men have at that,
even if they had land? 

 "These men are multiplying like leaves of the forest.
Their numbers are estimated by millions. There is no prospect
of many of them getting employment, or if they do, it
is only to take the places of others now employed who
would then be added to the out-of-works. You think, perhaps,
that it is none of your concern what becomes of them,
but, my dear sir, it is your concern, and you will realize it
before many seasons. It is a subject that cannot be dismissed
by turning on your heel and refusing to listen. The French
people thought that, once upon a time, but they learned
differently, even if the present generation has forgotten the
lesson. The present generation in the United States must 
solve this question, and will solve it in some way. It may be

 <380> 

in peace and love and justice, or it may be by a man on
horseback trampling down the rights of all, as you now
carelessly see the rights of some trampled. We repeat, you
 will answer these questions within a very few years. 

 "The French were warned, but they could not listen because
of the gaiety of royal rottenness. Will you listen? or
will the present course be permitted to run unchecked until
five or six millions are clamoring for bread or the oxide of
iron? The trouble, when it comes, will be intensified in the
United States a hundred-fold, because of the social conditions
that have prevailed here for a century. The love of liberty
has grown stalwart, nursed on a hatred of kings,
tyrants and oppressors. No army or navy from the masses
can be relied upon to shoot their own fathers and brothers
at the beck or order of untitled or titled kings. Seeing what
must result from a too prolonged idleness of millions, whose
conditions will soon cement a bond of fellowship, do you
not think you have some interest in the conditions they are
producing? Would it not be better to find and apply a remedy,
to employ these men, even in public workshops, than
to have the finale? 

 "We know what the capitalists are doing: We see them
preparing the munitions of war to rule the masses by force
of arms. But they are foolish. They are wise only in their
own conceits. They are adopting the tactics of kings, and
will be as chaff before the wind, by and by. All the fates are
against their tactics. Kings, with greater armies than can be
mustered to fight for capitalism here, are trembling before
the steady growth of a higher civilization among the
people, hurried on by the distress of this rapidly increasing
army of out-of-works. Justice injures none, though it may
shut off the privileges of robbers. Let us, as citizens, solve
and settle the problem lawfully, not as partisans, but as citizens
who think more of country than of party, and more of
justice than of the king's gold." 

 These are strong words from one who evidently feels
strongly, and there are many such. No one can gainsay that
there is at least some truth in the charges.

 <381> 

 The Conditions Universal and Beyond Human 

 Power to Regulate

 Nor are these conditions peculiar to America and Europe:
not for centuries have the millions of Asia known anything
else. An American missionary in India writes that she
became heartsick when asked by the natives if it were true
that the people of her home have all the bread they want to
eat, three times a day. She says that in India the majority
rarely have sufficient food to satisfy nature's cravings. 

 The Lieutenant-Governor of Bengal, India, is reported to
have said, not long since, "Half our agricultural population
never know from year's end to year's end what it is to have
their hunger fully satisfied." Those who raise the grain cannot
eat what nature calls for: taxes must first be paid out of
it. Ten millions of India's population are hand-loom cotton-cloth
weavers, and now machinery on the coast has
destroyed their trade and left nothing for them but
agriculture on the above hard conditions. 

 In South Africa, too, where millions of dollars have been
freely invested during what was known as the "African
Gold Craze," times are "hard" with very many, and some
of the educated are faring worst. The following from a
Natal, S. Africa, journal gives an idea of the conditions: 

 "Those who do not come directly in contact with European
immigrants in search of employment can have little
idea of the amount of destitution which prevails among this
class in Durban. It is gratifying to find, however, that the
Relief Committee of the Town Council realize that, on the
grounds of humanity, they have a duty toward the unfortunates
who have been stranded here. In course of a chat this
week with Mr. R. Jameson, the indefatigable convener,
who has entered heart and soul into this philanthropic
movement, I ascertained that the relief works at the Point
afford a temporary employment to something like fifty
men. It is distressing to find that men who have been

 <382> 

trained to clerical pursuits, as well as skilled artisans, should
find themselves so 'down in their luck' that they are only
too ready to accept the Corporation's allowance of 3s. per
day and shelter, in return for eight hours' shovelling sand
under a broiling sun. 

 "Meantime there are no vacancies, and frequent applications
have to be refused. From time to time the chairman
of the committee, by means of advertisements and otherwise,
finds employment for such of the men as have any
knowledge of a trade or handicraft. Vacancies thus created
in the gang are filled up from the ranks of those who have
previously made unsuccessful application. In addition to
those serving on the gang, there is a considerable number of
men wandering about the town who have sought in vain
for employment. They very soon find their way to the genial
deputy-mayor, and he does the best he can for them,
which, unhappily, often ends in failure. If employers having
vacancies will wait on Mr. Jameson, they can obtain
full information concerning the unemployed on his list. It
must be understood that none of these men are residents
proper of Durban, but have drifted there from various
parts of South Africa in search of employment. Durban is
by no means unique in its experience; there are only too
clear evidences that similar deplorable conditions hold
elsewhere. 

 "As has been already indicated, many of the applicants
for places on the relief gang are men accustomed only to
clerical work. It cannot be too often or too strongly emphasized
that for such there is absolutely no chance in Natal,
the market being always overstocked. But for the action of
the Corporation in providing temporary work, there would
have been a considerably greater amount of destitution in
town. On the whole the conduct of the men on the relief
gang has been highly exemplary, and warrants a continuance
of the policy which the council has adopted. But what,
it may be asked, is the Benevolent Society doing? That excellent
institution affords relief only to residents and their
families, and, as usual, its hands are full--if not with money,
at any rate with deserving cases."

 <383> 

 But will not people of intelligence who see these matters
take steps to prevent the crushing of their fellow-creatures,
less favored or less intelligent? Do they not see that the upper
millstone is coming very dangerously close upon the
lower one, and that the masses who must pass between
them in competition are feeling the pressure severely, and
must feel it yet more? Will not generous hearts provide
relief? 

 No; the majority who are favored either by fortune or
skill are so busy doing for themselves, "making money," diverting
as much as possible of the "grist" to their own sacks,
that they do not realize the true situation. They do hear the
groans of the less fortunate, and often give generously for
their aid, but as the number of the unfortunate grows rapidly
larger, many get to feel that general relief is hopeless;
they get used to the present conditions, and settle down to
the enjoyment of their own comforts and special privileges,
and for the time at least forget or ignore the troubles of their
fellowmen. 

 But there are a few who are well circumstanced and who
see the real situation more or less clearly. Some of these, no
doubt, are manufacturers, mine owners, etc. They can see
the difficulties, and wish that matters were otherwise, and
long to aid in changing them; but what can they do ? They
can do very little, except to help to relieve the worst cases of
distress among their neighbors and relatives. They cannot
change the present constitution of society and destroy the
competitive system in part, and they realize that the world
would be injured by the total abolition of competition
without some other power to take its place to compel energy
on the part of the naturally indolent. 

 It is evident that no one man or company of men can
change the present order of society; but by the Lord's power
and in the Lord's way, as pointed out in the Scriptures, it

 <384> 

can and will be changed by and by for a perfect system,
based, not upon selfishness, but upon love and justice. And
to introduce this the present conditions must be entirely
overthrown. The new wine will not be put into the old bottles,
nor a new patch upon the old garment. Hence, with
sympathy for both rich and poor in the woes near at hand,
we can pray, "Thy Kingdom come, thy will be done on
earth as it is done in heaven," even though it be introduced
with "the fire of God's indignation," for which we see the
"elements" already in preparation.

 The Morning Cometh

"A better day is coming, a morning promised long,
 When truth and right, with holy might, shall overthrow the 

 wrong;
 When Christ the Lord will listen to every plaintive sigh,
 And stretch his hand o'er sea and land, with justice, by and by.

"The boast of haughty tyrants no more shall fill the air,
 But aged and youth shall love the truth and speed it everywhere.
 No more from want and sorrow shall come the hopeless cry,
 But war shall cease, and perfect peace will flourish by and by.

"The tidal wave is coming, the year of jubilee;
 With shout and song it sweeps along, like billows of the sea.
 The jubilee of nations shall ring through earth and sky.
 The dawn of grace draws on apace--'tis coming by and by.

"O! for that glorious dawning we watch and wait and pray,
 Till o'er the height the morning light shall drive the gloom 

 away;
 And when the heavenly glory shall flood the earth and sky,
 We'll bless the Lord for all his works and praise him by and by."