Charities Shouldn't Take Donors for Granted 

 The Chronicle of Philanthropy 
 From the issue dated June 1, 2000 
 Charities Shouldn't Take Donors for Granted 
 By PUTNAM BARBER 
 We sent our dues check to the alumni group of my wife's alma mater early in
May. We were pleasantly surprised to receive a welcome letter in response after
just a couple of days. But we quickly became disconcerted when we noticed that
the letter assured us that we would enjoy the many benefits of membership until
the end of our membership year on May 31, 2000. In other words, for a couple of
weeks. 
 Whatever else might be said about this unusually brief term, it seems certain
that no one at the university actually read the laser-printed letter that was so
efficiently sent in response to our small gift. From what I've been seeing and
hearing over the past few months, our experience with the alumni office isn't
unusual. 
 Missed communication, miscommunication, and no communication at all are the
best ways to characterize the way many charities respond to people who have made
a gift. 
 All too often, fund raisers seem to concentrate most of their energy and
creativity on soliciting people who will never give them a dime -- and in the
process they end up alienating the people who care about their causes enough to
have already opened their wallets. Or they lavish the wrong kind of attention on
donors they hope will become big givers. 
 Among the recent experiences that I, and some of my friends, have had when we
tried to be generous: 

 With all the charitable gifts I made at the end of last year I enclosed a
 note asking to be put on mailing lists to receive news from the recipients.
 Now it is June and three of the six have not yet sent me anything, yet my
 incoming mail includes plenty of informative materials from organizations
 I've never supported, and probably never will. 
 It took me three letters and one grouchy phone call to get the receipt
 that correctly described my gift to a local charity -- a receipt I will need
 for the Internal Revenue Service. One friend reported a similarly vexing
 exchange of six letters with a social-service organization before his name
 was spelled correctly. By the time his name was sorted out, it had already
 been published incorrectly in the organization's newsletter. 
 A couple I know made a generous gift to a public radio station. The gift
 was large enough to catapult them, unexpectedly, into a special
 "circle" of donors. As a result, they receive invitations to
 events hosted by station management and other perks. Over dinner the wife
 expressed what seemed to me a reasonable reaction. "All I need is to be
 told how our gift helped make the station stronger," she said.
 "Not foie gras and pinot gris with a bunch of strangers -- even nice
 ones." 

 A troubling thread runs through those anecdotes. 
 Most of the donations were unsolicited gifts, made by donors who didn't have
a continuing relationship with the recipient. Those should be the most welcome
gifts of all. But the mechanics of organized fund raising are leading too many
non-profit groups in the opposite direction. 
 Smoothly functioning procedures to get out the mailings, process the
responses, and focus on the people who gave last year but not this year as well
as other dilatory prospects for follow-up get detailed attention from fund
raisers. Missing from this efficient operation is the capacity to respond to the
unexpected, to an unprovoked act of generosity. 
 Of course, donors, and nearly everyone else, want charities to keep their
administrative costs down and focus their resources on the mission. But surely
that shouldn't cause charities to be rude to donors who live up to the American
promise of private action for the public good. 
 These are good times for the nation's non-profit groups, as last week's
release of Giving USA, showing a 9-percent rise in gifts in 1999, demonstrates. 
 But if this country is going to predicate the meeting of critical human needs
and the accomplishment of central community tasks on generosity, then we need to
be prepared to deal gracefully with the kindness of strangers. Fund-raising
professionals and non-profit executives have a responsibility to us all to make
sure the systems don't run so smoothly and efficiently that they run right over
the individuals on whom their success depends. 
 When community needs meet up with willing donors in the non-profit
neighborhood, it should be possible to stop on the sidewalk, chat for a while,
exchange a friendly handshake and some smiles. It may look a little
old-fashioned and inefficient. The alternative, though, will soon run into a
dead end of disgruntled ex-donors displaying thoroughly modern cynicism about
the way non-profit groups operate. We'll all be the poorer if we go down that
road. 

 Putnam Barber, a regular 
 contributor to these pages, is the president of the Evergreen State 
 Society, in Seattle, and the editor of the Internet Nonprofit Center 
 ( http://www.nonprofits.org/ ). 

 Copyright 2000 The Chronicle of Philanthropy