About the Edmomds Unitarian Universalist Church 

 Home Minister 
 Sermons Services Religious Ed. 
 Contact Events Welcoming 
 Links EUUC Bookstore 
 ABOUT THE CHURCH 
 History Facilities Affiliations 
 The Edmonds Unitarian Universalist Church is a voluntary association of men, women and children
 who come together in community to share concerns for the basic questions of life and to frame those inquiries
 in the context of religion in the largest sense of the word. We agree upon a set of ethical principles for living
 rather than promoting the acceptance of a specific religious creed. 

 PURPOSE 
 In the spirit of truth, irrespective of its sources, and in the spirit of universal kinship,
 undivided by nation, race, or creed, we unite to strengthen our convictions in the value of, and the need for,
 liberal religion, and through the strength of unity to give expression to these convictions as the organization
 decides. 

 BELIEFS 
 We agree upon a set of ethical principles for living rather than promoting the acceptance of
 a specific religious creed. Each member accepts responsibility for working out a personal belief system based on
 life experience and conscience. The approaches taken by individuals are diverse, and we feel that the respect for
 this diversity is a strength that unites and enriches us. On this basis of mutual respect, we work together
 to make religious community a reality. A major part of our community is the celebration of life's fullness
 and the promotion of social justice. 
 Top 
 HISTORY 
 The Edmonds Unitarian Universalist Church was originally an offspring of the University Unitarian
 Church of Seattle. Inspired by Rev. Aron Gilmartin, minister of the University Church, a small group organized
 the Sno-King Unitarian Fellowship in 1957. For two years the group met informally on alternate Sunday evenings. 
 Desire for a full Sunday morning service with a program for children led to the rental of the
 Edmonds Masonic Temple. Three years later, in 1962, the Fellowship moved to the Edmonds High School where it met
 for the next four years. During that time the congregation decided it needed its own building and a part-time professional
 minister. 
 In September, 1966, the new church building opened its doors with The Reverend Robert Fulghum
 as part-time minister. Rev. Fulghum came for "one year to help the church get its feet on the ground,"
 and stayed for 18, until his retirement in the spring of 1985. 
 In 1969 the congregation ordained its founding members, Stuart and Maybelle Chapman, as lay ministers.
 Until Stuart's death the three ministers worked harmoniously and effectively to make the church a strong, liberal
 religious community. 
 Maybelle and Rev. Fulghum continued to work as a team until his retirement, after which he continued
 to serve as Minister Emeritus of the church. 
 The Reverend Aron Gilmartin came to serve as Interim Minister for the 1985-1986 church year.
 The Reverend Davis Joyce served as the first full time minister for the 1986-87 church year. Reverend Jaco B. ten
 Hove was called in June, 1988 and served until July, 1998, at which time he left to pursue a joint ministry with
 his wife, Rev. Barbara Wells. 
 The Reverend Elizabeth Kerman served as Interim Minister for the 1999 church year. 
 In August, 1999 Rev. Edward Brock was called as the new minister and continues to serve in that
 position. For an introduction to Rev. Brock see the Minister's Page . 
 Top 
 FACILITIES 
 The church building is modern and designed for both formal and informal use. It was designed
 as a multi-purpose facility to reflect the congregation's orientation toward families and community involvement.
 Chapman Hall, the main meeting room, can seat up to 225 people and an adjoining infant room permits parents with
 infants to hear and see the services while remaining with their children. There is a large, modern kitchen with
 easy access to the public areas. 
 Nine classrooms provide space for the children's religious education programs on Sunday and are
 available as meeting rooms at other times. A folding door between two of the classrooms opens to permit gatherings
 of 30 or more people. A more formal meeting space, The Friarplace, is equipped with a sink, small refrigerator
 and conference tables. It can accommodate meetings of up to 20 people. A library and offices of the minister, administrator
 and Director of Religious Education complete the facilities. 
 A parking lot accommodating 90 cars is located at the main entrance to the building. 
 NATIONAL AND LOCAL AFFILIATIONS 
 We are part of the Unitarian Universalist
 Association , one of over a thousand congregations in the United States and Canada. Regionally
 we are associated with the Pacific Northwest District
 and the Puget Sound Unitarian Universalist Council. 
 Top 
 Home Minister Sermons 
 Services Religious Ed. Contact 
 Events Welcoming Links EUUC Bookstore