Sunday Services 

 Home Minister 
 Sermons Religious Ed. Contact 
 About Events Welcoming 
 Links EUUC Bookstore 
 SUMMER SUNDAY MORNING SUNDRIES 
 During the summer regular Sunday services are replaced with a weekly lay-led series looking at areas
 of personal growth and items of current or historical interest. A new topic will be explored each week. The meetings
 will start at 10 a.m and last for approximately an hour. Informality is the order of the day for these sessions.
 There will be no Religious Education program for the children but child care will be provided. 

 June 24 There's Something about Bob Kyle Gillis 

 Both my children and I have asked "What do we need to do to be like Bob Fulghum?" Let's explore together
 what makes Fulghum so special. Bring your ideas and if you wish, a favorite anecdote or reading. Special "Fulghum
 Era" music will be provided by Pete. 

 July 1 Music as Healing: A Sound Spa Walayn Sharples 

 Music has been called the universal language. It breaks through barriers and opens the heart to its own knowing.
 Come experience the voice as a portal to inner and outer connection through wordless singing, simple songs, and.
 chants. This will be done withing the setting of ritual what it is and how it can be meaningful to our lives.
 Join with me. Lay down in your soul and awaken the spirit within. 

 July 8 Understanding and Enjoying Life with Adolescents Mary Marsh 

 By exploring the developmental expectations from pre-adolescence to adolescence, we will discuss the ways we can
 improve our relationships with young people. We will also talk about ways the church can be involved in supporting
 youth and their families through this important time of life. 

 July 15 Abraham Lincoln: The Common Man's Uncommon President John Hinds 

 We will explore the forces that formed this great president's character. Lincoln's greatness will be examined through
 excerpts from several of his personally written speeches. Lincoln had no speech writers. His entire Executive Branch
 consisted of two former law students and a few clerks and scribes. 

 July 22 Fulfilling the Promise Claiming our Heritage 2001 General assembly Doug King 

 My talk will be a personal reflection on my experience at the 2001 Unitarian Universalist General Assembly. Since
 this is my first GA I will have a newcomer's eye on the event. 

 July 29 A Whack on the Side of the Head Betty Davis 

 I own and cherish a book of this title and will explore how one can find his or her own voice or expression of
 creativity. The book, in an offbeat way, explains the different taboos of society that can hinder belief in and
 development of personal ideas or unique pathways or passions. This is an informal gathering so feel free to do
 a little "mood dressing" if you so desire. also, if you have a story of how you nurtured a creative idea
 of your own and let it bloom, please come and share it. We can all benifit from it 

 August 5 Waking up Inside our Conversations: Consiously Transforming our Relationshios within the Sea of
 Language Dudley Bass 

 Human beings live within conversation, swim within a sea of language without any awareness of the sea, as a fish
 that spends its whole life without any awareness of water. We will explore how our language creates our perceptions
 of life around us. As individuals we will examine how intentional use of language may transform our relartionships
 as we sail the seas of conversation. 

 August 12 Mad Cows, Angry People and the Well of Ignorance John Booth 

 The image of biotechnology was battered in the past year by unethical behavior on the part of scientists, industry,
 activists and governments. Much good work was done, but gaining acceptance of advances has become more difficult. 

 August 19 Moving toward Ballance Rick Mahurin 

 Our lives today are out of ballance. Stress has become the norm, while mental and physical health suffer. As individuals,
 however, we can consiously decide to bring our own lives back into ballance, focusing on mind-body interactions
 and physical movement. 

 Augusst 26 Knowing our Genome" Dr. Frank Harold 

 A few months ago, completion of the human genome made headlines around the world. We shall consider just what this
 enterprise is about, and what it means for science and for our ability to manipulate our world. 

 Top Home Minister 
 ReligiousEd. About Contact Events 
 Welcoming Links EUUC Bookstore