Web Designs 

 Charles W. Johnson 
 Other Pages a la Charles 
 Last updated 20 April 2001 

I've spent far more time working on my own page that anything else in
HTML, but from time to time I do work on other pages - for myself, for
friends, for money, or (preferably) some combination of those.
Here are some of the pages I've worked on.

 Southern Girls' Convention
2001 website - SGC2001 is a big feminist shindig we will be having
here in Auburn in late July 2001. There'll be tons of workshops and skill-sharing
for activists, riot grrrl shows, women's art, and more! Check it out!

 My K College
portfolio 
- At K we had to work on these online beasties called portfolios, where we
sling a bunch of information and reflection together about Our College
Experience. Since I left K, I've relocated the page to my eskimo space.
Have a look; you probably won't find much interesting, but if
you want to read papers I've written, or find out what classes I took at K,
this is definitely the place to be.

 Realtime
webzine - This was a webzine that I worked on as an editor, HTML
coder, and contributor with
three other guys from #atheism , which has currently fallen
by the wayside due to lack of time and energy (also, I'm sure in part due
to my anal retentive attempts at management). Still, it was fun while it
lasted, and there are a whole two (or one and a half) issues online. Feel
free to check it out; I don't think it's half bad.

 Auburn University
Political Science Department - I was hired by the Poli Sci
department to update their web page with recent info and new visual
layout for the low, low price of $75. Actually I would have taken $60,
but who am I to argue with the boss? I had to grab some graphics,
fiddle with the content of the main page a little bit, redo the
overall layout, and convert some brochures into decent-looking
HTML. Not too much work, but a lot of time spent trying to turn WP's
alleged HTML conversion into something that I wouldn't be embarassed
to put online.

 Professor Johnson's
homepage - This was my first serious HTML design project, before I
had even dreamed of my current page. My father hired me to do a page for his
classes, especially the UNIV 0102 Introduction to Political Economy class.
All the layout and organization are my doing. Since this is such an old
project, some parts of it, well, suck. But I've worked on both the content
and the layout several times since it began back in 1995, so hopefully the
suck factor isn't too high. The major attraction is the online edition of
his Political Economy glossary, which is extremely useful, and, I like to
pretend, somewhat attractively designed.