Reading 

 Charles W. Johnson 
 Recommended and Current Reading 
 Last updated 4 June 2000 

 Fiction 
 Nonfiction 
 Poetry 
 Humor 
 Books to Avoid 
 My Reading List 
 Homepage 

 Recommended Fiction 

 The
Lord of the Rings trilogy and The Silmarillion by
J.R.R. Tolkien are classics of our time. Tolkien is a master of the epic
and tragic sweep of mythic histories.

For most of my reading life, I've been in love with Isaac Asimov's
forthright prose, imagination, and light humor. I suggest pretty much
anything that he wrote, but especially the Foundation 
series and one of his better collections of short stories, such as Robot
Dreams or Nine
Tomorrows .

Frank Herbert excels at painting intricate portraits of future
societies and alternate ecologies (and their interplay), while
exploring our own cultural mythos. I highly recommend his classic, Dune 
and even more so The
Jesus Incident and The
Lazarus Effect .

In elementary school I was enthralled by Madeleine L'Engle's simple but
beautifully woven science fiction Time series, with A
Wrinkle in Time , A Wind in the Door , A Swiftly Tilting
Planet , and Many Waters . Don't pigeonhole them as "children's
books;" they're still great reading.

Since seventh grade I've had a love affair with dystopian literature,
for its ability to combine tragic, personal plots, intriguing
socio-political theory, and contemporary satire. Some of my favorites
include Margaret Atwoods haunting, poignant, and very relevant The
Handmaid's Tale ; George Orwell's bitterly satiric Animal
Farm and horrifying 1984 ;
Aldous Huxley's superbly ambiguous Brave
New World ; and the beautiful imagery and tragedy of Ignazio
Silone's Bread
and Wine .

 Rosencrantz
and Guildenstern are Dead by Tom Stoppard is a
disturbing but hilarious postmodern play from the point of view of
two minor cogs in the machinery of Shakespeare's Hamlet .

 Recommended Nonfiction 

Thanks largely to my coursework on
Eighteenth Century Philosophy , I've really come to love the period as
one of the greatest flowerings of original thought on the mind and on the
bounds of that whereof we can sensibly speak. The enthusiasm of these
thinkers for careful inquiry is infectious, refreshing, and mostly lacking
in today's dried-up world of clique-ish, resigned, nitpicking Analytics, and
pessimistic, language-game-playing Continentals. I particularly recommend
Bishop Berkeley's Treatise Concerning the Principles of Human
Knowledge , David Hume's A Treatise of Human Nature , and
Immanuel Kant's Critique of Pure Reason .

 Ayn
Rand: The Russian Radical by Chris Sciabarra and Feminist
Interpretations of Ayn Rand , ed. Chris Sciabarra and Mimi Gladstein
are two important works in the growing incorporation of Ayn Rand's thought
into the channels of academic philosophy, and offer quite valuable
interpretations and assessments of her thought and fiction.

 Utilitarianism 
by John Stuart Mill and The
Nicomachean Ethics by Aristotle are what I consider to be two of
the most profound works on ethics published (as I tend to go with some
mixture of virtue ethics and classical utilitarianism in my ethical
thought).

 Beyond
Good and Evil by Friedrich Nietzsche, on the other hand, is one of
the most profound and important critiques of ethics ever published, and
contains innumerable insights on social theory, psychology, literary theory,
ethics, metaphysics, and epistemology, among others - despite frequently
being wrong (such as in his attacks on Kantian epistemology) and having some
utterly revolting passages (such as the remarks on women). Definitely a
must-read, especially for those who have a decent familiarity with 19th
century Continental thought.

 Writing Down the Bones by Natalie Goldberg is a wonderful, wonderful
book about creative writing - but also about creativity and art in general.
It's beautifully written, and filled to the brim with practical suggestions
for better writing - especially for improving the way that you actually go
about writing (rather than the usual bullet list of commandments about
 what you write).

 Guns, Germs, and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies by Jared
Diamond is a great anti-racist analysis of the broadest patterns of
world history, from the perspective of an evolutionary biologist. His
case is powerful and provocative, if sometimes over-broad, and is tied
together through persuasive, skillful prose.

 About
Face: The Essentials of User Interface Design by Alan Cooper
will change the way you think about interface design. Some of Cooper's
concrete suggestions are weak, but his radical questioning of basic
interface idioms and practices are more than worth the price of the
book.

 The History of Hell by Alice K. Turner and A History of
God by Karen Armstrong

 Pooh and the Philosophers by John Tyerman Williams

 The Complete T. Rex by Dr. John R. Horner and Don Lessem and
 Hunting Dinosaurs by Louie Psihoyos with John Knoebber

 Recommended Poets and
Poetry 

 T.S. Eliot 
 e.e. cummings
 Basho
 Pablo Neruda

 Federico Garc&iacute;a Lorca
 William Wordsworth
 Shel Silverstein
 The Book of Psalms , New International Version

 Recommended Humor 

 This Modern World 
by Tom Tomorrow
 Dilbert by Scott Adams
 Anguished English by Richard Lederer
 Science made Stupid and Cvltvre made Stvpid by Tom Weller

 Books to Avoid 

 A Separate Peace by John Knowles 

Very possibly the worst book I've ever read. The writing is horrid--if I
cut out all of the pointless crap in the book, it would be a novella.
Out of all the characters, Phineas is the only one for whom I care
whether he lives or drowns in the river. And even him I don't like much.

 Great Expectations by Charles Dickens 

I actually hesitate to tell people to avoid this book. I thought
that the beginning and the end of the work actually formed the core of
a good story. Most of the characters are fairly interesting, and I can
even sympathize with most of them. But the book loses its appeal when
it becomes bogged down by Dickens' overblown prose, and in the middle
bloats into a long and boring account of daily life with Herbert
instead of an interesting narrative.

 The Tragedy of Romeo and Juliet by William Shakespeare 

It's probably blasphemy to hate this, but I simply cannot stand the play
at all. For such a highly praised figure in English literature, Shakespeare
can't put together a logical plot to save his life in this piece of refuse;
the entire play is motivated by gross stupidity and random accidents. The
view of love presented (as an inexplicable, fated occurrence between strangers)
is irresponsible hogwash and the only redeeming event in the entire play is
when the leads end the stupid play with their own stupid deaths.

 The Fountainhead by Ayn Rand 

Thought you hated the characters in A Separate Peace ?
Prepare to be assaulted by a set of characters so totally
unsympathetic, so unlikable, and so flat that they could only appear
in an Ayn Rand ideological allegory. While the forces of darkness
are obviously unlikable and Bad, the supposed hero of the work
is an anti-social egotheistic asshole whose love life is closer to
repeated rape than a relationship. Ayn Rand should have just followed
John Bunyan's example (from The Pilgrim's Progress and The
Life and Death of Mr. Badman ) and named Howard Roark "Objectivist
Superhero" and Ellsworth Toohey (who is probably the most interesting
character in the book) "Wicked Meanguy." If I'm missing any
important perspectives on the plot or characters, please forgive me; I
only waded through a few chapters before I felt compelled to throw the
book across the room and not pick it up again.

 Some of my Current Reading List 

 Politics by Aristotle
 Prolegomena to Any Future Metaphysics by Immanuel Kant
 Considerations on Representative Government by John Stuart Mill
 Remarks on Bentham's Philosophy by John Stuart Mill
 For the New Intellectual by Ayn Rand
 Phaedo by Plato
 Symposium by Plato
 Stranger in a Strange Land by Robert Heinlein
 Something Wicked This Way Comes by Ray Bradbury
 The Eye of the World by Robert Jordan
 The Catcher in the Rye by J.D. Salinger
 Raptor Red by Bob Bakker
 Azazel by Isaac Asimov
 The Germanic Invasions by Lucien Musset
 The Celts by Nora Chadwick
 Conciousness Explained by Daniel C. Dennett
 The Golden Bough by James George Frazer
 Asimov's Guide to the Bible by Isaac Asimov
 Testament by John Romer
 The Mysteries of Mithra by Franz Cumont
 Middle Eastern Mythology by S.H. Hooke
 The Gnostic Gospels by Elaine Pagels
 The Origin of Satan by Elaine Pagels
 The Basic Kafka , all stories therein by Franz Kafka
 The Discourses by Niccolo Machiavelli
 Das Kapital by Karl Marx
 Evolutionary Socialism by Eduard Bernstein
 The Essential Works of Anarchism ed. Marshall Shatz
 Three Faces of Marxism by Wolfgang Leonhard
 Utopia by St. Thomas More
 We by Yevgeny Zamyatin
 Walden by Henry David Thoreau
 Island by Aldous Huxley
 Paradise Lost and Paradise Regained by John Milton
 The Blind Watchmaker by Richard Dawkins
 Climbing Mount Improbable by Richard Dawkins
 The Mismeasure of Man by Stephen Jay Gould
 Dinosaur in a Haystack by Stephen Jay Gould