What You Can Do To Support Women's Rights, Part II - Charles W. Johnson 

You can support the work that goes into creating this online content by contributing
a small amount online. I suggest about $2-$3 for each year that you read the website.

 Charles W. Johnson 
 What You Can Do To Support Women's Rights 
 Last revised 13 May 2001 

 Part I 
 Part II 
 Part III 

 Front 
 Politics 
 Writing 

 Pages by me 
 Webrings 
 Links 

 About Me 
 Copyright 
 Contact me! 

As both a male peer educator and a radical feminist activist, one of the
most common questions I hear from men about feminism is, "What can I do?" It
is true that many men are openly hostile towards women and towards feminism,
and most men (in my experience) are at best ambivalent and somewhat suspicious
of feminism and feminist groups. But most men that I talk to at least pay
lip service to the fundamental doctrine of feminism, that women deserve
the same rights as men and that any just society must include an end to
gender oppression. These men, mostly political liberals, agree that the
oppression of women, where it exists, is an injustice that must be
stopped. However, they rarely know where and how they can act to help the
cause of women's rights. In this series of articles I will present a few
suggestions on how to help fight for gender justice. They are intended to
be very broad but nonetheless have clear and practical implementations. Many
of them will apply equally to men and women, but because men have a
unique lack of information about women's oppression and strategies for
fighting it, most of the suggestions will be primarily addressed to men.
Some will exclusively address issues raised by men within what is
fundamentally the women's movement. In other articles I hope to
present more specific strategies for both women and men, but before any of
that, we need to understand the basic things, the simple things that, if
understood, make so much difference.

 What you can do - Part II
( &laquo; Prev |
 Next &raquo; ) 

 This article continues Part I of What You
Can Do to Support Women's Rights , which dealt with the three
fundamental points of activism for women's rights: believing and
supporting women , getting involved , and
 educating yourself . It builds on
 Part I with three fundamental points of
bringing that very public fight into your "private" day-to-day
life. The order of presentation is somewhat the reverse of what is typical
for the Men's Movement, which tends to focus on
redefining a vague something which they call Male Identity, mostly through
the personal renunciation of privilege, and hoping that one day everyone
will be in the Men's Movement and therefore all male privilege will be
renounced. A leader in a community group working on violence against women
once told our Men Against Gender Violence group that we should all try to
change ourselves "at your own pace." Well, listen up: women
 don't have time to wait around for all men to be
enlightened. A real, meaningful commitment to women's rights, "means
something more than a personal renunciation. It means a systematic, political,
active, public attack. And there has been very little of that"
 (Dworkin
[1983/1993] 169) .

 Refuse to abuse women - The most fundamental
betrayal of women's rights, women's dignity, women's humanity is the abuse of women.
Violence against women is a systematic form of gender
terrorism which, where it succeeds, keeps all women under the
boots of all men. And as a system, it is built out of millions
upon millions of tiny acts of brutality and terror, acts which keep
 individual women under the boots of individual men (or
small groups of men): the rapes that one in four women suffer, the more
than two million attacks that women suffer every year, the brutal
exploitation and coercion of women by pimps and pornographers.
When you abuse women, you participate in that system, and that means that
you fight against the full rights and dignity of women.

It seems beyond obvious to point out that men fighting for women's rights
have to renounce the abuse of women. Everyone knows that - or everyone
damn well ought to know it. But we are men within a
patriarchal culture. And we have been made into little
soldier boys from the minute we were cut from our mothers' bodies. And
we do , all of us, including myself, sometimes fail in
our commitment to feminism. We may act almost involuntarily, out of
reflexes and habits built up through years of acculturation: we forget
to listen to women, we try to dominate women in conversations, we think of
women as objects to be controlled or possessed and then try to control
or possess them - emotionally, physically, sexually - in our
relationships. We may not recognize that our acts
 do hurt women : we consume
pornography, we make jokes glorifying pimps, we support films and books
and television programs with cruelly misogynist elements. Or, sometimes,
we know what we are doing, and we know what it does, but we do it anyway,
because we want power, we want male privilege . We
exploit women sexually, we indulge in misogynistic humor, we take
advantage of the guilt and passivity that we know women are
brought up with in order to make them helpless against us. Men in a
patriarchal culture can never simply say that they are "not
sexist" or that they never have misogynist attitudes.

But we cannot hide behind guilt, and we cannot let guilt cripple us in
our fight. Instead, what we must say and practice is that we
are also against misogyny, anti-sexist . We must say
that cannot stand misogyny, and we must fight against it, whether it is
on the streets or in our friends or in ourselves. And this means that
we, as men, must stop doing some things .

We must stop trying to argue women down and exclude them from
conversation. Men often do not realize that we are excluding women,
because we merely think that we have not finished talking: over and over
again I have seen the few men in groups lock all women out through
back-and-forth arguments, never even leaving enough time in between
statements for others to step in. We need to stop such combative 
ways of speaking. Don't feel the need to leap into conversations at
the first available opening; give others a chance to say something. And
if you notice that women are not being included in a conversation,
 stop and encourage them to speak . 

We must also stop trying to control women in relationships and sexuality.
This means avoiding jealousy and the control (emotional,
physical, or economic) over talk, movement, and personal relationships
that it can lead to. It also means refusing to "pursue"
relationships : work on abandoning the language of pursuit,
hunting, "the chase" in relationships, and the conception of
sexuality as "scoring," "making it," or "how
far you can get." Which also means rethinking the way you begin and
behave in relationships: stop going out to "meet chicks," 
"find someone," or "get some." Don't try to hunt
down meaningful relationships: try letting them develop instead. And try
 letting women initiate romantically and sexually:
forget the male imperative to "make things happen" and the
idea that if you do not, then you will be "missing your chance"
(What chance? The opportunity to "score"). This is not to say
that you should become as passive as possible; it is to say that you
should not act on the premise that you, as a man , must initiate
 all the time .

We must also come to recognize ways in which women are hurt and refuse
to support or practice those forms of abuse. As I mentioned in
 Part I , coming
to recognize these abuses is part of listening to women 
and educating yourself about the history and
theory of women's rights. We must refuse to
 consume
pornography : when we consume pornography we both internalize
the propaganda of violence against women, and also support the pimps who
cruelly exploit women in the multibillion dollar "sex industry."
We must also refuse misogynistic humor and humor
that glorifies the abuse of women (of particular concern today is
the glorification of pimps ). And we must recognize
misogynistic or patriarchal elements in the media, even if the
book, article, television program, or movie seems to be irrelevant to
gender. A complete silence on gender can sometimes be the most important
kind of statement: the exclusion of women from consideration is
certainly not irrelevant to women's rights. Always ask yourself what an
author, editor, distributor is saying about us as men and as women, and if
you don't like it, then refuse to support them with your
money - either through purchases, advertising dollars, or recommendations
to others. This doesn't mean refusing to look at anything that might be
the least bit misogynist. But it does mean refusing to
wholeheartedly support those publications that are patriarchal.

 Call out other men - just as men must refuse to 
participate in the abuse of women, we must also refuse to support others
who participate in it - which includes not sanctioning them
through our silence . When your friends, your
family, or anyone else, express controlling attitudes towards women,
tell misogynistic jokes, consume pornography, ignore or exclude women,
or in any other way support the abuse of women, call them out on
it . Make your opposition known. You may not - indeed, you
probably will not - completely change the mind of the other man. But you
will make your statement heard by those around you. And you will swell
the voice against all those abuses. That voice which is all too lacking
today, and without a strong and vigorous voice against gender violence,
there will be little if anything to stop those who would perpetuate it.

 Acknolwedge feminism - thus far I have been
speaking of "women's rights," "gender justice," and
other euphemisms which try to dance around the F-word:
feminism . I have done so to try to bring us to making exactly
this point. We as men need to accept and celebrate the term
'feminism' and the tradition of feminism. If we are to fight
for what feminism fights for - the fundamental dignity of women - then
we must not stand off to one side of the feminist tradition. This means
 being, uncompromisingly and unapologetically, a feminist. 
It also means rejecting the cariacatures, distortions, and insults heaped
upon feminism by the mass media and popular culture (it is indicative that
the word that springs to mind for most, even for liberal men, when
thinking of the women's movement, is feminazi , a term
 coined by Rush Limbaugh ). Don't put up with
feminist-bashing and make it clear to everyone that can hear you that
you are a feminist and that you celebrate your commitment to justice
and dignity for women.

Without a personal commitment to women's dignity in every aspect
of your life, a political 
commitment to feminism will only be so much empty gesturing,
constantly betrayed by your own actions and beliefs. To be feminists we
must fully recognize that the personal is political ,
and that means renouncing to abuse women ourselves, standing up to those
in our everyday lives who do abuse women, and acknowledging and aligning
with feminism - both within yourself and with those close to you. In
 the
next article I will address some of the unique issues raised by men within
the feminist movement, and what men can do to respond to these issues:
 respecting women's-only space , refusing to
co-opt , and stepping aside .

~ Part I |
Part II |
 Part III ~

 Written and maintained by Charles W. Johnson . 
 All pages copyright 1996-2002 by Charles W. Johnson unless otherwise noted. 
 All rights reserved. 
 For more information, see the copyright notice .