For the Wannabe Net Advertiser 

(For the Wannabe Web Advertiser)

by

 Al Wong 

 Introduction 

Spamming doesn't work. Newbie advertisers, knowing nothing
about Net culture, think they can do an "in your face" advertising
campaign with impunity. Little do they know the Net works both ways.
Many have had their account closed literally within hours of
the offense. Their reputations tarnished forever on the Net.
These are the lucky ones. Others have had their
phone numbers and fax machines tied up for days. 
Threats, sabotage, early morning phone
calls, etc. are not unheard of in the most flagrant situations.
Advertising on the Net is a double edged sword if you don't
know what you are doing.

I recommend all wannabe-Net-advertisers, who are serious about
advertising on the Net, to read 
the Joel Furr's Usenet article entitled:

 Advertising on Usenet: How To Do It, How Not To Do It 

This file in plain text

can also be downloaded by anonymous FTP from

rtfm.mit.edu 

in the directory 

/pub/usenet-by-group/news.announce.newusers

In fact, I recommend everyone read it if you haven't.
Most, if not all of it, also applies to personal email.

This article concisely explains why you shouldn't spam the Net.
 There are hidden costs. Not the least is the resources takened on
other machines to store the unwanted junk email and the time
takened from each person who receives it. Also, some people pay
by the number of email messages they receive. One can imagine
their reaction receiving junk email that was not requested and unwanted.

This article also describes the acceptable ways to advertise on
the Net besides the World Wide Web.

 The Philosophy 

In real estate, the catch phrase is Location, Location, Location .
On the Net, the catch phrase is:

 Content, Content, Content 

 Content can be defined as non-trivial information that is valuable
or useful to a group of people. The more unique and specialized 
the content (it cannot be found elsewhere), the more valuable it probably is.
Do not confuse this with advertising hype which
has almost zero content.

The philosophy of the Net is each individual freely gives something he knows
to the Net. If each person does this, then the sharing of knowledge mutually
benefits everyone. This is the strength of the Net. This is why it is so
valuable as a resource. This is why the Net is a thing of great beauty.
If everyone just took the knowledge without 
contributing anything back, the Net would soon become a vast wasteland.
What little content there was would be hopelessly outdated and not useful.

Crass advertising does not contribute content to the Net.
(Except in devising
ways on how to stop it!)
It benefits only the advertiser, not everyone else.

If you want to be accepted on the Net, 
add something to the content. Post articles
you've written. Post your stories, poems, music, insights, etc.
Intelligently participate in special interest groups.
Make available real, unique information you think people would find useful
or valuable. Use your imagination. The experience will make you a
better person. 
If you are sincere, people will start 
coming to you and may even buy your products and/or services.

 My Writings 

 How Do I Stop Unwanted Junk Email?! 

 Write to me 

Last updated : April 30, 2001

Copyright 1996 Al Wong, Los Angeles, California, USA