Al's Thoughts on Hallucinations 

Written by Al Wong

This is a description of my hallucination experience while I was
recently sick. I was debating whether I should write this article but
I think the experience is interesting enough to put
it on the Web and perhaps compare notes with others.
I never have takened recreational drugs, I don't drink alcohol and
I don't smoke. I prefer clean living. Perhaps because of this,
I've never really hallucinated for prolonged periods of time
before.

It happened about a month and half ago. I had just arrived back to
Los Angeles (LA) from Hong Kong (HK). 

The HK trip

was an experience in itself.
I had caught some sort of bug while in HK and had a sore throat and
was easily tired. This condition flared up during the flight back to LA
to flu like symptoms including coughing, chills and headaches.

When I arrived home, all I did was take a shower and make cup of tea.
Then I went to bed to sleep and ended up mostly bed ridden for the
next four days and hallucinating all this time!

During that time, whenever I closed my eyes, I started
to hallucinate. This was very weird because I would be awake
and sitting upright or lying down and trying to sleep. 
If I closed my eyes, I would hallucinate immediately. 
I would be in another world!
I know they were hallucinations because I could see
them very clearly. I wear prescription glasses and/or contact lenses and
normally see things blurry. So I was able to immediately tell what
was real (blurry) and what was unreal (clear).

Now I can understand why some people seek escape by taking drugs to
hallucinate and see other worlds. It was an incredible experience.
I did see numerous other worlds and many possibilities. It was all
very clear, pretty much like animated computer graphics, with
vivid colors, designs, movement, texture, shadows, etc. 
Some were extraordinarily
beautiful and others were very ugly to the point of horror.
It would certainly stimulate the creative juices in anyone.

I found it difficult to sleep because I couldn't tell if I was
dreaming or having a hallucination. (I see my dreams clearly too.)
I remember "waking up" and
my eyes would be sore from looking at all the hallucinations.
Then I'd realize I didn't sleep at all.

It was kind of interesting the amount of control I had over my
hallucinations. The closest I would describe it is like working
with 

PhotoShop.

By willing it, I could literally zoom in and out of the pictures. 
I could change
the color and hue of the pictures. I could rotate the pictures.
Sometimes I could change my perspective inside the picture.
I did notice I could not change some higher abstractions.
For example, I could not change a male picture into a female one and
vice versa. Perhaps this is not an primitive inbuilt function of the mind.

I should mention here I had no control over the types of
hallucinations I would experience. They appear to come randomly
at me. Sometimes they would be other worlds with different
creatures or laws of physics. Sometimes they would be abstract
patterns that constantly changed. Sometimes they would just
be a picture. 
Once I had seen a given hallucination however, I was able to
control it as I described above before it would change again.

It was an interesting experience but I don't think I would
want to get sick again or take drugs just to repeat it.
Physically, I was pretty miserable. I stopped hallucinating
after the four days. That bug I caught lingered for about 2 weeks and
I saw the doctor twice! I had a sore throat for the longest time.
Then one morning four weeks later, I woke up and felt myself again.

 My Writings 

 Write to me 

Last updated : April 30, 2001

Copyright 1996 Al Wong, Los Angeles, California, USA