Learning Chinese 

 Learning Chinese 

 a rant by 
 Al Wong 

 Introduction 
 Speak Like a Native!? 
 Tit For Tat 

 Obstacles 

 Define Native Speaker Please 
 Foreign Accents 
 Age Myth? 
 Dated Material 
 American School Chinese 

 Getting the Message Across 

August 23, 1998

 Introduction 

Recently, I have been taking classes to learn Mandarin Chinese.
While I have taken foreign language classes before (Spanish mostly),
Chinese is a language that is decidedly different. 
This is a rant on how Chinese language classes are generally conducted.
I think Chinese Americans who are born in the USA 
and are also trying to learn Chinese
will relate to this rant very well.
While these comments are especially directed towards Chinese teachers
and how they teach their classes, they are also directed towards
overseas Chinese living in the USA who:

 look down on people who cannot speak Chinese fluently.
 yet are unable to speak English properly themselves.

What bothers me in all the Chinese classes I have experienced
(5 classes)
is the emphasis to speak like a native. 
The motivation being that native Chinese people will look down on
you if you sound like anything less than a native.
I say this is a wrong premise and an almost impossible goal.
My reasons are below.

As stated before, I have also takened classes in Spanish.
The funny thing about native Spanish speakers is that they
universally appreciate
you attempting their language no matter how badly you speak it.
Some will even try to help your pronunciation.
This motivates learning and the spread of their language and culture.

On the other hand, Chinese people will coldly put you down if you
mispronounce even a single word. This deters learning and
contributes to racism as fewer people will attempt the language.
Ignorance of the language and culture results and leaves
room for stereotypes.

 Speak Like a Native!? 

What is so good about speaking like a native anyway?
Suppose I walk into a local Chinatown store and sound like a native. 

 Will I get a discount for general merchandise at your store?
 Will I be invited to your house for dinner?
 Will you introduce me to your single daughters?

I don't think so.

In fact, there is really no good reason to sound like a native.
Even if you can say a few sentences like a native, sooner or later
you'll be tripped up.

Is it better to be upfront about it now or
have yourself exposed later? 
Think about it.

 Tit For Tat 

Overseas Chinese people who come to the USA and learn English don't sound
like native English speakers. Even people who live here
for 20 years or more don't sound like a native.
Some of these people take
voice lessons for months/years and still don't sound native. 

All the Chinese teachers I've experienced (5 classes)
are far from being native English speakers. Is it because
English is harder to learn than Chinese? I don't think so.

Shouldn't these people be expected to
speak English like a native as well?
Do you think they care if they sound like a American native?
Will they make the effort? No? So why should you speak
Chinese like a native?

 Obstacles 

What are some of the obstacles in trying to speak like a native Chinese?
These are the ones I know offhand. There are probably more.

 Define Native Speaker Please 

 What the hell is a native speaker anyway??? 
If you ask three different Chinese teachers how to pronounce
a given Chinese character, you'll get three slightly different
pronunciations!
Yet they all are native Chinese speakers!

One can conclude there are regional differences just like in the USA.
Consider the US Southern, New England, Mid-West and
Californian accents. So sounding like a native in
one region will make you sound like Joe Hick 
in the next. This is ridiculous.

 Foreign Accents 

An accent is basically the rhythm in which you speak a language.
Each language has its own native rhythms.
It is almost impossible to get rid of the accent
in your mother tongue. Unless you can do that, you'll never
sound like a native speaker in a foreign language.

 Age Myth? 

I am also told unless you started learning a second language 
before puberty (10 years old or younger), 
the odds are you'll never really learn the language.

I personally don't believe this. Adult language classes are
conducted much differently than children language classes.
In children language classes, there is much more repetition 
and they go much slower. I feel if adult language classes
were conducted similarly, adults would learn just as fast.

 Dated Material 

The Chinese textbooks use jargon that is at least 20 years old.
Usage of nouns for professions like medical doctor (Dai Fu)
are no longer in modern day use. Using dated jargon hardly
marks one as a native speaker.

 American School Chinese 

Besides being dated, another thing wrong with Chinese classes 
is the textbooks don't teach you how to speak like a native
anyway! You learn what I call American School Chinese which is
different from the Mandarin Chinese used in Taiwan or in China!

In fact, I can now tell if a Chinese has been educated in 
 Hong Kong School English. 
It's the way they pronounce their words and their usage
of words that gives them away.

I understand a similar thing is happening with French taught
in American schools. French is another language where they
are very particular about pronunciation.
However American School French is different
from the French spoken in Canada and in Europe.

 Getting the Message Across 

I believe I have proven my case that 
it is not necessary to sound like a native
speaker. Getting your message across 
is much more important, if not THE most important goal.

I figure it'll probably take me a very long time to sound
like a native Chinese speaker, if at all. But I will make myself
understood first.
Who cares what native Chinese speakers think anyway?

 My Writings 

 Write to me 

Last updated : April 30, 2001

Copyright 1998-2001 by Al Wong, Los Angeles, California, USA