Al's Writings 

 IOPS F5 MP3 Player

 My review of my second MP3 player! This is my upgrade to the

 F325

 player I bought about 18 months ago. The F5 plays video files well
 but paradoxically displays images badly.
 The whole sordid story is here!

 Rough Science Rocks!

 See practical applications of basic science and math in a very cool way.
 Amazing and clever!

 Would You Work For Them?

 The weirdest series of phone interviews I have experienced to date.

 Why GE Transportation Sucks

 Rather than do basic historic research, GE decides to 
 perpetuate
 a racist lie on the joining of the transcontinental railroad.

 Making Money on the Internet: Gold Trading

 I just found a way to make money on the Internet
 that is not a scam! It isn't easy. It takes time 
 and there is a learning curve
 but I believe the effort is worth it.

 Why the United Parcel Service Sucks

 UPS did it again. They screwed me out of receiving a package
 sent to me. This has happened at least three times now.

 IOPS F325 MP3 Player

 My review of my very first MP3 player! The player is about the size of a
 pack of chewing gum. Despite the crappy user manual and
 firmware bugs, I really like it.

 Getting Windows CE 2.00 ActiveSync to Run on the Local Area Network

 Why wait for slow transfers over the serial cable when you could
 make an ActiveSync connection over a much faster ethernet local area network?
 Share files and install new programs quickly on your Handheld computer.
 Many people have tried and failed. I solved it for Windows CE 2.00
 even with a few unknowns.

 Internet Connection Sharing With All Things Windows

 I recently created a local area network (LAN) with computers running 
 five different
 versions of Windows. The neat thing is they all share the same dialup line
 via the LAN!
 I had been meaning to do this for some time.

 Why Windows Sucks

 I can't stand it anymore! I have to vent.
 I have seen too many releases of Windows and they all suck.
 I am convinced Windows is a scam.

 Secure Telnet for Windows CE 2.00:
 Installation Instructions for OpenSSH

 I just installed this onto my LG Phenom Express.
 The existing instructions are rather terse and scattered so I put
 everything in one place. The installation procedure is rather involved.
 OpenSSH is an Open Source telnet that supports SSH connections!
 I am sure someone else would find this useful.

 Your Money is No Good Here

 I recently went to a Target store to buy some stuff and tried to
 pay with an older $100 bill. Read what happened.

 China 1999

 I got back from a
 long summer vacation into China! While visiting Beijing and Xi'an,
 I kept a daily journal which I uploaded 
 to this webpage about once a week.
 I describe the good, the bad and the ugly.
 Overall, the trip was worth it.

 (10/25/99 Update - Some selected pictures and items were scanned
 and put on-line. Check it out!)

 Fujitsu Poqet PC Plus Handheld Computer

 My review and experience with the Poqet PC Plus computer.
 The machine weighs a little more than a pound and
 has a nearly full sized keyboard. Also, it runs MS-DOS 5.0!

 Learning Chinese

 For Chinese Americans trying to learn Mandarin. 
 Should you learn to speak like a Chinese native?

 What Is It?

 Here is a mystery object of unknown function and origin which
 has been pinking my curiosity for years.
 I found it in a junk drawer at my parent's house.
 I thought I'd ask the Net about it.
 Kudos to the one who can correctly identify it.

 Disneyland's New Tomorrowland Sucks

 I went to Disneyland to celebrate July 4th!
 Also, I wanted to see the New Tomorrowland.
 After months of construction and
 $100 million spent on the facelift,
 I don't think it was worth the wait.

 Why The Joy Luck Club Sucks

 A must read for all Asians!

 Demeaning stereotypes affects us all.
 I find it surprising other ethnic groups have stamped out most
 of their stereotypes 
 except for Asians. 
 Even if you don't
 agree with me, it will make you more aware.

 Hong Kong 1996

 My experience in Hong Kong, a year before the city
 reunifies with China. Includes travel advice and cool pictures.
 I want to go back!

 Megs-O-RAM

 Ever added gobs of RAM and couldn't find any information
 on how to optimally configure it? I talk about my considerations
 when I upgraded my notebook computer to 40 MB!
 PC only.

 No Spam!

 How to stop junk email. Describes what spam is and why
 it's a bad marketing tactic. Instructions on how to send a
 complaint against the spam you receive. Updated August '97.

 Net Advertising Tips

 A short article giving pointers on good and bad marketing tactics
 on the Net. Definitely no spam!

 Hallucinations

 About my hallucination experience while very ill.
 It was an interesting experience. Compare notes with me.
 How do you hallucinate? 

 I even have an
 RSS Feed for this webpage 
if you swing that way.

 Al's Wild Web Page 

-->

Last Updated: May 11, 2006

Copyright 1996-2006 Al Wong, Los Angeles, California, USA

All rights reserved.

&#32;