What Should a Breastfeeding Mother Eat 

 diapering 
 parenting 
 breastfeeding 
 links
 contact
us 

 -->

 Links 
 Breastfeeding Information 

 What Should a Breastfeeding Mother Eat 
Up-To Date Breastfeeding Answers from Ameda/Egnell 

 Breastfeeding mothers often have questions about nutritional needs during breastfeeding. the content of human milk varies only slightly among mothers regardless of their diets. Ideally, mothers of babies should eat a balanced, varied diet emphasizing nutrition-dense foods in as close to a natural state as possible. A perfectly balanced diet is not necessary; however, when needed nutrients are not eaten,
any mother may experience fatigue and reduced stamina. the following information will give guidelines for recommended daily allowances, suggestions for quick snack and simple meal planning, foods to avoid and special dietary needs. 

 RECOMMENDED DAILY ALLOWANCES 

 It is often recommended that during the last half of pregnancy, 200-300 additional calories be added daily and breastfeeding mothers increase that by 200-300 calories more. This recommendations based upon the estimated amount of calories consumed by a breastfed baby. Although the recommended additional calories during pregnancy remains unchallenged, recent studies suggest that the number of calories
needed by breastfeeding women is less than previously believed. 

 Breastfeeding mothers should strive for a calorie intake of 2000-2200 calories per day. Protein and calcium, two requirements for which there is increased need during lactation, should be emphasized. The chart included at the end of this information will show quantities and types of foods suggested in the daily diet of the breastfeeding mother. 

 It is important that the breastfeeding mother drink to satisfy her thirst. Fluids can include water, fruit juices, vegetable juices, milk and soup. It is a good idea for the mother to get into the habit of drinking during each nursing. when the mother is drinking enough, her urine will be clear to pale yellow. 

 Prenatal vitamins prescribed during pregnancy can be continued during breastfeeding. If mother is taking an iron supplement, it will be utilized more completely if taken with a citrus fruit or juice. 

 QUICK SNACKS AND SIMPLE MEAL PLANNING 

 A mother's time and energy may be in short supply while adjusting to the change in her life after the birth of her baby. Snacks can be an important source of daily nutritional needs if chosen with care. 

 The following is a list of quick, easy and nutrition-dense snacks. 

 Bagel with cream cheese 
 Celery and peanut butter 

 Cheese and crackers 
 Cheese cubes 

 Cottage cheese 
 Dried fruit and nut mix 

 Fruit salad 
 Granola and yogurt 

 Hard boiled eggs 
 Milk shakes with fruit 

 Peanut butter sandwich 
 Peanuts 

 Popsicles made with juice 
 Raw vegetables with dip 

 Banana nut bread 

 Simple meal planing is also important to the new mother. If people ask what they can do to help, mother can ask for help with meal preparation or a meal ready to heat in the oven. When mother cooks, she can double the recipe and freeze half or keep half for a second night's meal. Casseroles, meals in a slow cooker, or dishes with meat and vegetable cooking together are simple ant time saving. This is a
good time to collect recipes which have a small number of ingredients or are simple to prepare. 

 FOODS TO AVOID 

 Many mothers are told to avoid certain foods while nursing, such as gassy foods (beans, broccoli, brussels sprouts, cauliflower, etc.) spicy foods (onion, garlic, chili pepper, etc.) and chocolate. There is no evidence that these foods, when eaten in moderation, cause problems in most breastfed babies. 

 In babies with a strong family history of allergies, it is possible that traces of food found in the mother's milk, such as cow milk, eggs, wheat, fish or citrus foods, could cause a reaction in the baby. The mother's diet will need to be adjusted only if the baby develops allergic symptoms. If baby is sensitive to cow milk products the mother eats or drinks, the mother's calcium needs can be met in
other ways. Foods that contain calcium include book choy, kale, broccoli, watercress, oranges, salmon, turnip greens, almonds, and sardines. It is sensible to eat all foods in moderation and to avoid bringing on any one food to prevent possible reactions in the baby. 

 Alcohol use should be limited since it may interfere with the mother's let-down. A recent study suggest that babies consume less mother's milk after the mother has consumed alcohol. An occasional alcoholic drink should pose no problems, but regularly or to excess poses a risk to her baby. 

 Smoking is discouraged because excessive nicotine can interfere with the let-down reflex and result in a low milk supply. In one study, the babies of smoking mothers had an average weight gain significantly less than babies of nonsmokers. Another study showed that human milk provides protection against respiratory disease to breastfeeding babies whose mothers smoke. If mother cannot gibe up cigarettes,
she should consider low-nicotine cigarettes, limit cigarettes to fewer than ten per day and smoke in a room away from the baby since the danger of passive smoke is significant. 

 SPECIAL DIETARY NEEDS 

 Low milk supply: If a mother experiences a period of low milk supply, she can consult with a knowledgeable source to discuss alternatives for her situation. Possible suggestions may include nursing the baby more often, switching sides and positions several times during a feeding, using a breast pump to stimulate the milk supply, and learning techniques to condition the let-down reflex. In addition to
building the milk supply, the breastfeeding mother may also want to evaluate her diet for acceptable nutritional levels. Protein and calcium intake need to be checked since they are the two nutrients that require the greatest daily increase during lactation. 

 The amount of fluids the breastfeeding mother is drinking might also need to be monitored. Many others drink a glass of fluid with every nursing or pumping session. Thirst should be the main indicator of how much the nursing mother drinks during the day, since over-drinking can interfere with prolactin and may reduce the milk supply. 

 CHRONIC OR ACUTE DISEASE 

 The mother diagnosed with a chronic or acute disease may also have special dietary needs. If mother and baby must be separated during mother's illness, regular expression of her milk supply and prevent a breast infection. Milk can be collected by hand expression or use of a manual, battery, or electric breast pump. When ill mother will need extra nutrients to aid healing and replace any loss of body
stores or reserves. If feverish, mother will be burning up body fluids and will need to drink frequently to replace this loss. The physician should be told that mother is breastfeeding so that medications are checked for appropriateness for the nursing couple. 

 VEGETARIAN DIET 

 Mothers practicing a vegetarian diet should continue to eat a variety of foods with special attention to including complete proteins through complementary plants. Vegetarian mothers who are breastfeeding may be at risk for a Vitamin B12 defiency which can have serious consequences for the baby. Sources of Vitamin B12 include fortified soy milk, fortified yeast and supplemental vitamin preparations.
Persons contemplating a vegetarian diet can consult a nutritionist or dietitian to be sure their diet is adequate. 

 SUMMARY 

 Breastfeeding mothers can continue to enjoy a wide variety of foods. Questions about personal nutritional needs can be referred to nutritionist or dietitian. Volunteer organizations such as La Leche League can also answer many of these questions and provide valuable support as can certified lactation consultants. The public library has many books on nutrition and food preparation. 

 BASIC FOOD GROUPS 

 Foods with similar nutrient content are conveniently grouped together into six basic foods groups: milk/dairy, protein, grain, vegetable, fruit and fats/sweets. Every person's total daily food intake should be well-balanced among these to provide a nutritious, healthful diet. The daily food guide is especially helpful in planning daily food choices for meals. the recommended number of daily servings for
pregnant adolescent and pregnant and lactating women is presented in the table below. 

 DAILY FOOD GUIDE 
 Minimum Recommended Number of Servings Daily 

 Food group 
 Adolescent Pregnancy 

 Pregnancy 

 Lactation 

 Milk/Dairy 

 5 

 4 

 4 

 Protein 

 4 

 3 - 4 

 3 - 4 

 Bread/Rice 
 Cereal/Pasta 

 9 -11 

 9 - 11 

 9 - 11 

 Vegetable 

 3 -5 

 3 - 5 

 3 -5 

 Fruit 

 2 -4 

 2 -4 

 2 -4 

 Fats/Sweets 

 Use in moderation or sparingly 

 Baby
Stuff 
 Parent
Stuff 
 Email
Us Price
List 
 2001
 baby
town llc All
rights reserved 
1-800-957-2749