Diaper Covers 

 diapering 
 parenting 
 breastfeeding 
 links
 contact
us 

 Diaper Covers 
 Training and Swim Pants 

 Diaper Covers 

 People often ask our consultants how many diaper covers they will need. The rule of thumb here is one cover for every four to six diapers, depending on how frequently you wash them . 

 Try our new Line of diaper covers on the BUMMIS page "the finest diaper covers on earth" A mother owned company in Canada 

 Nylon Pull-On Pants are worn over top of cloth diapers. Our Pull-On Pant is leak proof, long lasting and comfortable. Smooth, flat-lying Lycra TM / spandex seals the waist and legs. 

 The breathable nylon pants and wraps are reliably dry for two hours at which point they begin to get saturated and loose their waterproofing. Use waterproof pants for longer naps and nighttime. 

 Styles 

 Breathable Pants & Waterproof Pants 
 Most parents use a combination of our Breathable Pants (white only) during the day and our Waterproof Pants (white only) at night for extra protection of sleepers and bedding. 

 Breathable nylon pants are very healthy for your baby because they allow for greater air circulation and release of moisture, thereby lowering the temperature in the diaper several degrees. A cooler diaper area discourages the growth of undesirable bacteria. 

 Size 
 Fit 

 Small 
 10-17 lbs 

 Medium 
 17-22 lbs 

 Large 
 22-30 lbs 

 X- Large 
 30-40 lbs 

 Waterproof pants are no longer available in Cotton Covered Prints . White only 

 Breathable - $5 
 Waterproof - $4.50 
 Cotton Covered - $9 

 Wraps 
 Nicknamed the "easy on and off" pant, the Wrap Pants feature adjustable VELCRO closure and Lycra / spandex waist and legs.

 Size 
 Fit 

 X- Large 
 Over 35 lbs 

 The wrap is available in a Waterproof Nylon and a Breathable Nylon . 

 Breathable - $9 
 Waterproof - $8 

 Want more? Try the Bummis products 

 Baby
Stuff 
 Parent
Stuff 
 Email
Us Price
List 
 2001
 baby
town llc All
rights reserved 
1-800-957-2749