Discount Baby Furniture, Baby Bedding & Children's Furniture, BabyTown provides baby furniture and baby bedding - Baby Town llc 

 BabyTown llc 

Thank you for your interest in Baby Town . You should be redirected in a few seconds. For your records, please go to http://babytownllc.com from now on.

If your browser doesnt go there in a few seconds, please click here. or call us at 1-818-881-4441

BabyTown provides one of the largest displays of Baby Furniture & Children's Furniture, plus a complete line of custom bedding, strollers, baby cribs & childrens accessories. 
Baby Town is a family-owned and operated store. Harvey and Renee Lippman, along with their daughter, Heather, and son-in-law, Darren Shack, purchased the business three years ago so that they could enjoy each other as a family unit. Renee and Harvey's other daughter Karin, along with her husband Shawn Salter, design and manufacture a line of gift accessories that can also be seen at Baby Town as well as in stores across the country.
Our goal has been to provide a uniquely pleasant shopping experience for the expectant parents and their families, as well as families with toddlers and teens. We can do ths because our 22,000 square foot store is designed with a cheerful open feeling. Our showroom exhibits the largest selection of cribs, changing tables and young children's furniture.
Renee delights in finding the most appealing bedding and accessories form the best quality manufacturers and decorates the cribs and fully furnishes the 33 showrooms in order to demonstrate what can be done. Baby Town offers reasonably priced furniture for every budget and tries to stock most cribs and furniture for our customer's convenience. The staff at Baby Town are friendly and knowledgable baby experts that will take the time to personally assist each customer.
Come see why we are the fastest growing children's specialty store in Southern California.

If you are in Reseda, California then you should go to BabyTown. Is your friend not registered with BabyTown? Are you not local to Reseda? Try shopping for your baby bedding at Babies First Choice by going to www.babiesfirstchoice.com or click here