Washing Instructions 

 diapering 
 parenting 
 breastfeeding 
 links
 contact
us 

 Indisposables TM 
 Liners & Inserts 
 Laundry Products 

 Laundry Instructions 

 When you purchase products from BabyTown, you will be given a set of laundry instructions. We have reproduced the list here for your convenience. 

 We recommend that all of our products be prewashed before use. 

 Washing your Indisposables TM Cotton Diapers 

 Prewash diapers twice before using. 

 After Changing your baby's diaper, flush stool down the toilet and place wet or soiled diaper into a diaper pail.

 Soak the diapers in a pail filled with 1/2 water and 15ml of Indisposables TM Laundry Brightener , or 1/4 cup vinegar or washing soda. It is not recommended to soak diapers more than three days.

 To transfer diapers in the pail to a laundry machine, either hand wring diapers and use lid of pail to carry OR pour all of the diaper pail contents into the washing machine, turn on rinse cycle and spin solutions out of the diapers.

 Use the Indisposables TM Liquid Laundry Concentrate . Do not use Bleach, Detergents with Bleach, Pure Soap Products (such as Ivory Snow), strong detergent products - liquid or powder (such as Tide).

 Care in drying your diapers will add to their life. Dry diapers on medium setting for half of the drying cycle and then hang damp diapers to dry for the balance. Softeners in the washing machine and dryer are not recommended as they reduce the absorbency of the diapers.

 To remove stains, rub a bar of "white" soap on the wetted down stain before placing in the diaper pail. Try hanging diapers in the sun after laundering to naturally bleach stain away. Add Indisposables TM Laundry Brightener to washing machine. For extra tough stains, mix 5ml Indisposables TM Liquid Laundry Concentrate with 5ml
 Indisposables TM Laundry Brightener and apply past to stain. Launder as usual. 

 Washing your Indisposables TM V 

 The washing instructions for the Indisposables TM V are the same as for The Indisposables TM Cotton Diaper with the exception of the recommendation that you utilize a dry diaper pail system (no water) versus the soaking method. 

 Washing your Nylon Pants 
 (Breathable or Waterproof Pull-Ups, Breathable or Waterproof Wraps, Cotton Covered Pull-Up and Cotton Covered Wraps) 

 Caring for your Indisposables TM Pants properly will add to their life. Breathable Nylon fabrics should always be hand washed and hung to dry. Waterproof nylon fabrics can be machine washed. Never place Indisposables TM Pants in the dryer. To maintain the vivid colors of Cotton Covered Pull Ups and Wraps, soak in a saltwater solution (5ml salt in a basin of water) prior to washing.

 For premature babies or those with very tiny legs, hand stitch the Lycra/spandex on the legs to make the leg openings smaller. Undo the stitching as the baby grows. 

 Washing your Indisposables TM Diaper Liners, Inserts and Baby Wipes 

 All of the above can be soaked, laundered and dried with diapers. 

 Flushabye TM Diaper Liners 

 The Flushabye TM Diaper Liner's size and content make it safe to flush down toilets. It should be noted, however, that plumbing systems and their effectiveness vary. Too many Flushabyes TM flushed down a toilet at one time or during one day in a less than adequate plumbing
 system may cause problems. To avoid this difficulty, we recommend that only one Flushabye TM be flushed at one time. We also recommend that they only be flushed when soiled. Wet liners can be disposed of in the garbage. It is also helpful to let the Flushabye TM Liner sit a few moments in the toilet before flushing. Homes with septic tanks can use the Flushabyes TM if
 they follow the above tips. 

 Washing your Indisposables TM Training Pants 

 Do not soak Training Pants in the wet diaper pail system. Wash in warm water and dry on a medium setting. To reduce drying time, turn the pants inside out. Soak Cotton Print Training Pants in a saltwater solution (5ml salt in a basin of water) prior to washing 

 Washing your Denim Diaper Bag and Receiving Blankets 

 Wash in warm water and dry on a medium setting 

 Washing your Bibs and Swim Pants 

 Wash in warm water and dry on a low setting 

 Washing your Dirty Diaper Bags 

 Hand wash and hang to dry. 

 Washing your Indisposables TM Pads 
 Change, Multi Purpose, Crib, Twin Bed, and Double Bed Pads) 

 Wash in warm water and dry on a medium setting 

 Washing your Indisposables TM Mattress Protector 

 WATERPROOF NYLON:--> Machine wash in warm water and hang to dry. 

 Washing your Indisposables TM Nursing Pads 

 Wash in warm water. Cotto n Nursing Pads may be dried on a medium setting in dryer. Nylon Nursing Pads should be hung to dry. 

 Washing your Nursing Bras 

 Wash in cold water and hang to dry. 

 Washing your Cotton Sanitary Pads 

 * It is recommended that you wash all pads before using them to bring them to their maximum absorbency and wash away any possible manufacturing residues. When washing Outer Pockets, remember to attach the Velcro TM tabs together to prevent it from sticking to other clothes or from
 collecting lint. 

 Remove soiled pads and rinse thoroughly in cold water to remove heavy soiling. If it is not convenient to rinse thoroughly immediately after use, then wet the pad and store it in a waterproof bag until you can rinse it. (if allowed to dry soiled, the pad will stain.)

 Soak rinsed pads in soaking container with Indisposables TM Laundry Brightener or fill the container with 2/3 water and 2 tablespoons of white vinegar or washing soda. Change water and cleaning solution every day.

 When you are ready to wash the pads, throw the pads and the contents directly in the washing machine along with your ordinary "light" wash, and use warm water - or hand wash in warm water. We recommend the use of the Indisposables TM Liquid Laundry Concentrate or any other environmentally friendly detergent. DO NOT USE Bleach, detergents with bleach, pure soap products, or
 strong detergents (liquid or powder) to launder the pads.

 Care in drying will also add to the life of the product. For machine drying, use the medium setting and try using it for only half of the drying cycle, hang drying for the balance. Softeners are not recommended as they may coat the material fibers and thus reduce absorbency. Full air drying, especially sun drying, is a natural
 sanitizer and whitener, so try to use these methods whenever possible.

 * If you follow these instructions, the pads should come out clean. If for any reason they do become stained, please DO NOT USE Chlorine Bleach. It is harmful to the environment and with repeated use will eventually break down the material fibers of the product. It will turn the Velcro TM , on the outer pocket wings, brown. We recommend the use, in the washing machine, of the
 Indisposables TM Laundry Brightener, or any other environmentally friendly, NON CHLORINE BLEACH substitute. Before washing , soak the stained pads in water for at least 24 hours, then wash in warm water as usual. 

 Baby
Stuff 
 Parent
Stuff 
 Email
Us Price
List 
 2001
 baby
town llc All
rights reserved 
1-800-957-2749