Liners and Inserts 

 Indisposables TM 
 Liners
 & Inserts 
 Laundry
 Products 

 Liners and Inserts 
 THE BEST COTTON DIAPER ACCESSORY 
 Many parents who use cotton diapers during the day find that they need to use paper
 diapers at night because the urine soaks the diaper and pant, wetting the baby's clothing
 and bed. The answer is our wonderful insert, which doubles the absorbency of the diaper
 and prevents leaking during nap and nighttime. Many parents start to use inserts for nap
 and nighttime when their babies are about four months old. 
 Here's an idea from one parent: "I used brushed polyester liners at night and
 sometimes throughout the day. When I noticed that my son reached the stage where he had
 fairly consistent bowel movements each morning after breakfast, I would use a Flush-a-bye
 liner in the first diaper of the day and goodbye mess! Flush-a-byes are great to use when
 you go out because you don't need to try and rinse a dirty diaper in someone else's
 bathroom. However you use them, liners make diapering a breeze!" 

 Styles 

 Inserts 
 Bigger babies often need even more protection at night. If you have different sizes of
 inserts you can use two at a time; a size large and a size small, thus affording maximum protection while reducing bulk in the diaper. - $3.50 each When you use inserts you may find that you need the next size diaper pant or wrap because of the extra bulk in the
 diaper. If the leg or waist openings of the bigger covers are too loose and the diaper
 leaks, simply hand stitch a dart in the seam of the leg and/or waist binding and release
 it when your baby has grown enough to fit the new pant properly. 

 Flush-a-bye TM 
 Liners 
 For parents' convenience, Diaper Liners ease the clean up of soiled diapers and prevent
 staining. 
 The Flush-a-bye TM 
 Diaper Liners are made of 100% wood pulp and are safely flushable, even for septic
 tanks. Many parents leave Flush-a-byes in the diaper if the diaper is just wet, not
 stained. Flush-a-byes TM can go through the diaper pail and wash. They can then
 be separated and hung dry. Out of ten Flush-a-bye TM liners you can expect to
 reuse six, as some will tear. If the odd liner goes through the dryer don't worry, you
 won't gum up the works. - $5.25 per roll of 100 sheets. 

 1997 TC Kidco. All
 rights reserved 
 Original Site created by MediaWeb Solutions , Modified by BabyTown. Please
 report any errors to BabyTown .