Reusable Liners 

 diapering 
 parenting 
 breastfeeding 
 links
 contact
us 

 Indisposables TM 
 Liners & Inserts 
 Laundry Products 

 Reusable Diaper Liners 
 $8.75 for 6 

 9"x13" Brushed polyester sheeting that fits into any size diapers. 

 Use to keep baby drier, as the moisture wicks through the fabric into the diapers. 

 Great for parents who want a quick and easy way to dispose of the.. well... the more Solid matter. 

 Washing your Indisposables TM Diaper Liners, Inserts and Baby Wipes 

 All of the above can be soaked, laundered and dried with diapers. No bleach or fabric softener. 

 Flushabye TM Diaper Liners 

 The Flushabye TM Diaper Liner's size and content make it safe to flush down toilets. It should be noted, however, that plumbing systems and their effectiveness vary. Too many Flushabyes TM flushed down a toilet at one time or during one day in a less than adequate plumbing system may cause problems. To avoid this difficulty, we recommend that only one Flushabye TM 
 be flushed at one time. We also recommend that they only be flushed when soiled. Wet liners can be disposed of in the garbage. It is also helpful to let the Flushabye TM Liner sit a few moments in the toilet before flushing. Homes with septic tanks can use the Flushabyes TM if they follow the above tips. 

 Washing your Indisposables TM Cotton Diapers 

 Prewash diapers twice before using. 

 After Changing your baby's diaper, flush stool down the toilet and place wet or soiled diaper into a diaper pail. 

 Soak the diapers in a pail filled with 1/2 water and 15ml of Indisposables TM Laundry Brightener , or 1/4 cup vinegar or washing soda. It is not recommended to soak diapers
 more than three days. 

 To transfer diapers in the pail to a laundry machine, either hand wring diapers and use lid of pail to carry OR pour all of the diaper pail contents into the washing machine, turn on rinse cycle and spin solutions out of the diapers. 

 Use the Indisposables TM Liquid Laundry Concentrate . Do not us Bleach, Detergents with Bleach, Pure Soap Products (such as Ivory Snow), strong detergent products - liquid or
 powder (such as Tide). 

 Care in drying your diapers will add to their life. Dry diapers on medium setting for half of the drying cycle and then hang damp diapers to dry for the balance. Softeners in the washing machine and dryer are not recommended as they reduce the absorbency of the diapers. 

 To remove stains, rub a bar of "white" soap on the wetted down stain before placing in the diaper pail. Try hanging diapers in the sun after laundering to naturally bleach stain away. Add Indisposables TM Laundry Brightener to washing machine. For extra tough stains, mix 5ml Indisposables TM Liquid Laundry Concentrate with 5ml Indisposables TM Laundry Brightener and apply past to stain. Launder as usual. 

 Baby
Stuff 
 Parent
Stuff 
 Email
Us Price
List 
 2001
 baby
town llc All
rights reserved 
1-800-957-2749