Proverbs on becoming a wise person 

Proverbs...on becoming a wise person: 

 Pr.2:1-6: 
1 My son, if you accept my words and store up my commands within you, 2
turning your ear to wisdom and applying your heart to understanding, 3 and
if you call out for insight and cry aloud for understanding, 4 and if you
look for it as for silver and search for it as for hidden treasure, 5 then
you will understand the fear of the LORD and find the knowledge of God.
6 For the LORD gives wisdom, and from his mouth come knowledge and understanding.
(NIV) 

Pr.9:1-10: 
1 Wisdom has built her house; she has hewn out its seven pillars. 2 She
has prepared her meat and mixed her wine; she has also set her table. 3
She has sent out her maids, and she calls from the highest point of the
city. 4 Let all who are simple come in here!" she says to those who
lack judgment. 5 Come, eat my food and drink the wine I have mixed. 6 Leave
your simple ways and you will live; walk in the way of understanding. 7
Whoever corrects a mocker invites insult; whoever rebukes a wicked man incurs
abuse. 8 Do not rebuke a mocker or he will hate you; rebuke a wise man and
he will love you. 9 Instruct a wise man and he will be wiser still; teach
a righteous man and he will add to his learning. 10 The fear of the LORD
is the beginning of wisdom, and knowledge of the Holy One is understanding.
(NIV) 

Pr.10:1 
The proverbs of Solomon: A wise son brings joy to his father, but a foolish
son grief to his mother. (NIV) 

Pr.10:5 
He who gathers crops in summer is a wise son, but he who sleeps during harvest
is a disgraceful son. (NIV) 

Pr.10:8 
The wise in heart accept commands, but a chattering fool comes to ruin.
(NIV) 

Pr.10:14 
Wise men store up knowledge, but the mouth of a fool invites ruin. (NIV) 

Pr.10:19 
When words are many, sin is not absent, but he who holds his tongue is wise.
(NIV) 

Pr.10:23 
A fool finds pleasure in evil conduct, but a man of understanding delights
in wisdom. (NIV) 

Pr.11:2 
When pride comes, then comes disgrace, but with humility comes wisdom. (NIV) 

Pr.12:18 
Reckless words pierce like a sword, but the tongue of the wise brings healing.
(NIV) 

Pr.13:10 
Pride only breeds quarrels, but wisdom is found in those who take advice.
(NIV) 

Pr.13:20 
He who walks with the wise grows wise, but a companion of fools suffers
harm. (NIV) 

Pr.14:8 
The wisdom of the prudent is to give thought to their ways, but the folly
of fools is deception. (NIV) 

Pr.15:7 
The lips of the wise spread knowledge; not so the hearts of fools. (NIV) 

Pr.15:31 
He who listens to a life-giving rebuke will be at home among the wise. (NIV) 

Pr.16:23 
A wise man's heart guides his mouth, and his lips promote instruction. [b]
(NIV) 

Pr.17:24 
A discerning man keeps wisdom in view, but a fool's eyes wander to the ends
of the earth. (NIV) 

Pr.18:15 
The heart of the discerning acquires knowledge; the ears of the wise seek
it out. (NIV) 

Pr.19:11 
A man's wisdom gives him patience; it is to his glory to overlook an offense.
(NIV) 

Pr.19:20 
Listen to advice and accept instruction, and in the end you will be wise.
(NIV) 

Pr.20:1 
Wine is a mocker and beer a brawler; whoever is led astray by them is not
wise. (NIV) 

Pr.21:11 
When a mocker is punished, the simple gain wisdom; when a wise man is instructed,
he gets knowledge. (NIV) 

Pr.21:20 
In the house of the wise are stores of choice food and oil, but a foolish
man devours all he has. (NIV) 

Pr.21:30 
There is no wisdom, no insight, no plan that can succeed against the LORD.
(NIV) 

Pr.23:4 
Do not wear yourself out to get rich; have the wisdom to show restraint.
(NIV) 

Pr.29:3 
A man who loves wisdom brings joy to his father, but a companion of prostitutes
squanders his wealth. (NIV) 

Pr.29:8 
Mockers stir up a city, but wise men turn away anger. (NIV) 

Pr.29:11 
A fool gives full vent to his anger, but a wise man keeps himself under
control. (NIV) 

Pr.29:15 
The rod of correction imparts wisdom, but a child left to himself disgraces
his mother. (NIV) 

Pr.30:5 
Every word of God is flawless; he is a shield to those who take refuge in
him. 6 Do not add to his words, or he will rebuke you and prove you a liar.
(NIV) 

 Click here to return to the Proverbs
main subject listings.