2000 What's New? 

 2000 What's New? 

 What's New 

 Al's Wild Web Page 

 August 18, 2000 

 Added more content to my

Why the Joy Luck Club Sucks rant 

including sections on

my afterthoughts

and how

I am famous

again!
I had been meaning to add these sections for some time now.

 August 10, 2000 

 Added yet another email message to my webpage about

bad customer experiences with IBM.

This person bought a NEW IBM ThinkPad laptop and 
had to send it in
for repair SEVEN TIMES! That's outrageous!

 April 27, 2000 

 Updated my 

Hummingbird Software webpage.

Fixed the menus so they all look consistent.
Updated copyright notice. Updated services provided.
I have been thinking about putting in some spiffy features
but need to find more time.

 April 25, 2000 

 Updated my 

computer webpage.

Added a current description of what I have been doing and
corrected several broken links. It's amazing how many URLs get
change around or are just plain broken for one reason or another.
Added information on the new Africa triple CD-ROM and added John Carney's
website to the list of websites I created or maintain.

 Updated my

city information webpage

too.
Almost all the links were broken here.

 Discovered the main page counter got reset for no reason at all!

 April 18, 2000 

 Added Netscape page counters to a few selected webpages
on a trial basis.
Hopefully, they won't slow the downloads.

 March 24, 2000 

 Inadvertently resetted all my counters again!
Damned Primenet user interface!

 January 28, 2000 

 Updated the URL for the Chinese American Museum page.
Their new URL is
 www.camla.org 
Their old URL was www.mcah.org.

 Added another webpage to my Poqet PC Plus review called

Comparing Poqet PC Plus Computers.

It seems there are different variations of the PC Plus
and some run significantly faster than others!

 January 17, 2000 

 Most of my page counters were inadvertantly resetted so
I decided to reset them all! Chalk this up to Primenet's
strange user interface for page counters.

 January 7, 2000 

 Updated my 

Poqet PC Plus review.

Added pictures of the 

two variations of the Megahertz XJ1144 PCMCIA modem

that will work with the PC Plus. Also corrected a few typos.

 Updated my

Why the Joy Luck Club Sucks review.

Added a section of frequently asked questions and comments.
I had been meaning to put this in for quite a while now
as most replies ask the same 1 or 2 questions.

 Added a few more email messages to my webpage about

bad customer experiences with IBM.

This webpage is growing little by little. IBM digging themselves deeper.

 January 4, 2000 

 Updated my 

Poqet PC Plus review.

Added description of which variations of the 
Megahertz XJ1144 PCMCIA modem that
will work with the PC Plus and which variations will not work.

 What's New 

Last updated: April 30, 2001

Copyright 2000-2001 by Al Wong, Los Angeles, California, USA