Complete summary of Sunset Boulevard 

 Complete summary of Sunset Boulevard (1950) 

The police investigate the murder of a movie writer at the home of an
old-time movie star. Six months ago, the victim, Joe Gillis, was an
unemployed writer whose latest script had been rejected by Paramount,
based on script reader Betty Schaefer's poor evaluation of it. Fleeing
car repossessors, Joe hid his car in the garage of a run-down mansion on
Sunset Boulevard. The mansion turned out to be inhabited by vain,
reclusive, silent movie star Norma Desmond and her stern yet devoted
butler Max. When Joe told Norma he was a screenwriter, she had him read
her script for Salome, which she planned to use for her return to movies.
Joe privately thought the script was awful but told Norma all her
"fantastic" script needed was some editing for an expensive fee. She
hired him as long as he agreed to move from his apartment to her guest
house, which he did. 

 Joe continued to give in to Norma. His efforts to edit Norma's script
were stymied by her indignation at cutting out parts featuring her. His
car was located and towed away by the car repossessors. Despite his weak
protests, she bought him expensive new clothes. Max moved Joe's things to
the husband's bedroom in the main house, next to Norma's, ensuring a loss
of privacy for Joe. Max told Joe that Norma had experienced depression and
tried to commit suicide in the past. Max also implied that he wrote the
fan letters Norma received everyday. 

 When Norma tried to get closer to Joe, they argued. Joe went to his
friend Artie's party and met Artie's girlfriend Betty, the script reader
at Paramount. Joe was attracted to Betty but left Artie's party in a rush
when he phoned Max and found out that Norma had attempted suicide. Joe
reconciled with Norma and they kissed. 

 Norma sent her script to director Cecil B. DeMille at Paramount, but
someone other than DeMille from Paramount called her. Norma went to visit
DeMille at the studio and he tried to let her down gently. DeMille's
refusal didn't register with Norma, who thought he would make his next
movie with her. Joe visited Betty, who proposed writing a script with him.
Max learned that Paramount had called Norma because they were interested
in renting her antique car, not in her, and told Joe. 

 A deluded Norma prepared herself for her return to movies, while Joe
secretly wrote a script with Betty and grew more attracted to her. Max was
concerned that Norma might discover the truth about Joe. Max told Joe he
protected Norma from the truth ever since he, an ex-film director, had
made her into a star. He was her first husband. He'd given up directing to
work as her servant because he still loved her. 

 Betty told Joe she'd fallen in love with him. Norma found Joe's and
Betty's script and phoned Betty to tell Betty about the truth about Joe.
Joe invited Betty to the house and told her he was Norma's kept man. Betty
asked him to leave with her, but he pretended he was interested in his
lavish lifestyle than her. After Betty left, Joe prepared to leave Norma,
armed only with his original belongings. Joe told Norma the truth: that
there would be no movie with DeMille, that the studio had only been
interested in her car and that Max wrote her fan mail. Norma went insane
and shot Joe dead. 

 The police try to interrogate Norma but she's completely deluded. She
thinks that the news cameras are movie cameras and that she's acting a
scene. Max pretends to direct her in front of the news cameras to get her
to go downstairs and into a police car. She walks downstairs and announces
how happy she is to be making movies again. 

 Dark City home | film
titles | directors 
| book
titles and writers 
| feature | linx 
| web authors 

 (&copy; NOIR, 2002)