The Backyard Gardener, Your Prime Garden Source 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 THE 
 GREEN THUMB IS WITH YOU! 

 Why We Find Ourselves Dependent on the Kindness of Strangers 

 Did you know, this domain is maintained 
 by only one person and it's my interest in gardening 
 that complies me to push on. I use to call it hobby, 
 but is it is now more of personal goal to make an informative 
 webpage for all to use. It seems like a part time job....lol 
 :) 

 In past 6 months, I had 10 million people visit my domain 
 and only 50USD was donated for my efforts.. Yes, I've 
 had sponsor's in the past, but now, it has dried up. 
 Ads are required to help pay the enormous fees to run 
 a domain. No more FAT DOT COM's are left. 
 If 
 I've saved you any time and provided some insight on 
 gardening, maybe you can provide me a small donation... 
 like a dollar for all the hard work I do. Hey, I have 
 to try. These domains fees are not cheap. The FAQ's 
 on the this page can address any of your questions on 
 donating. 

 If you'd care to become a Backyardgardener 
 supporter, we now have a relatively easy-to-use options, 
 the Amazon Honor System, which sounds very austere and 
 commanding and comes with this rather large graphic, 
 and PayPal, which sounds much more friendly and comes 
 with such a small, cheery graphic that we put it up 
 twice. Whichever you choose, we recommend either of 
 these services, because we're using them. Why? How? 
 See our FAQ. 
 BACKYARDGARDENER 
 SUPPORT FAQ 
 Why We Find Ourselves Dependent 
 on the Kindness of Strangers 
 What 
 is the Honor System and what is PayPal? 
 Amazon and PayPal both allow you, the visitor, to show 
 your support and/or appreciation for Backyardgardener 
 with a financial contribution. To do so, you can 
 click on one of the boxes above. The transaction is 
 done via credit card through Amazon's or PayPal's servers. 

 Are 
 they secure servers? 
 We believe so, but servers are not particularly introspective, 
 so it's difficult to tell. 
 Is 
 there a difference between Amazon and PayPal? 
 Yes. PayPal charges us much less (i.e., they take less 
 off the top). Then again, Amazon may already have your 
 credit card information, so unless you have a PayPal 
 account (which is actually easy to set up), Amazon could 
 be quicker. Or more quick. But basically it's whomever 
 you feel comfortable with. Either way, you get to keep 
 this site thriving. 

 Can't 
 we just support you directly? 
 Well, if you'd rather send a check or money order, you 
 can send to: 
 Overpass Internet Services, Inc. 
 P.O. Box 2199 . 
 Auburn, WA 98071-2199 

 Wait, 
 Backyardgardener has ads. Why should I give anything 
 if it makes money on banner ads? 
 The road to Chapter 11 is paved with ad-based revenue 
 models. As many of you know, the only models less productive 
 are selling pet supplies online, or launching a free 
 song-swapping service. Backyardgardener covers 
 some expenses with ads, but overall, the content you 
 see is produced at a substantial loss. I'd like to trim 
 that down to "moderate loss." Yes, this site is the 
 creation of one person with a family . 
 I 
 don't know how much to give. How much is Backyardgardener 
 worth? 
 As always, a good rule of thumb is to spend two months 
 salary on Backyardgarder. Hey, it works for diamonds. 
 PayPal 
 doesn't have a limit, but Amazon's Honor System only 
 allows me to give between $1 and $50. 
 Oh, all right then. Somewhere in there would be good. 

 Does 
 Backyardgardener get to see my credit card information, 
 or find out how much I gave, or who I am? 
 No, maybe, and maybe. We don't see your Credit Card 
 info - have nothing whatever to do with that. And if 
 you give through Amazon, we don't know anything else 
 about you either. If you use PayPal, we will be told 
 who you are and how much you gave. 
 What 
 will my money be used for? 
 A smile from my wife. 
 Um... 

 More Backyardgardener . Better Backyardgardener . 
 Maybe both. I've been creating pages since 1996. A donation 
 would be nice. 
 How 
 much money will Backyardgardener make on this 
 deal? 
 No idea. But let's do some hypotheticals. If one person 
 gives $1, Backyardgardener will make... $0.70. 
 I know you feel my info is worth more than $0.70 cents. 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] [an error occurred while processing this directive]