Pumpkin Growing Guidelines- Giant pumpkins 

[an error occurred while processing this directive] 

[an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 GROWING GIANT PUMPKINS 

 Basic Cultural Practices by Joel
 Holland 
 SOIL PREPARATION: Minimum space is
 approx. 300 sq. ft. per plant. Doubling this space or even more would be an
 advantage, and will generally result in a larger pumpkins. Prepare the soil by
 cultivation. Rake out larger stones, clumps of sod, etc. Incorporate into the
 soil an inch or more of organic matter in the form of compost, aged manure,
 peat moss, leaf mold, or rotted straw. Adjust pH to 6.0 - 7.0. Prior to
 planting, broadcast a balanced organic or commercial granular type fertilizer,
 and work into the soil. 

 STARTING SEEDS: Start seeds in 4" peat pots about May
 1 - 10, depending on local conditions. The tendency is to start too early,
 which generally works against the grower. The plants will need warm soil and
 settled weather to grow well. Seeds germinate best at 80 - 95 degrees F.
 Germination will be slow and may fail at cool room temperature of 65 - 70
 degrees F. A commercial propagation mat may be used, or a warm micro-enviroramt
 found. Some examples would be: 
 Over a hot water tank, In the oven with just the
 light on, In a cooler chest with warm bottles of water inside, On a
 mantle near stove, etc. 
 Excess heat is to be avoided and moistened pots must be
 covered to avoid drying. Fill moistened peat pots with a good light potting
 soil.. Seeds may be pre-sprouted between moist towels to 1/4" root protrusion
 and then planted one to each 4" pot, rooted side down and 1/2" soil over the
 rounded end. 
 TRANSPLANTING: After 2 - 5 days, transplant the potted
 plant to prepared growing beds. Protect young seedlings with properly
 ventilated cloches or mini-greenhouses. Water as necessary to avoid heat stress
 or wilting. When well established cloches my be removed. Wind protection my be
 needed until plant is well anchored with vines on the ground. Mound soil over
 vines at several leaf axils to stabilize plant and to encourage secondary
 rooting from the vines. Water as needed, adding balanced soluble fertilizer to
 water once per week. Control weeds with mulching, shallow cultivation, and hand
 weeding as necessary. Remember, shallow roots may extend 4 ft. or more out from
 perimeter of the plant. 
 FRUIT SET: The plant should blossom and set fruit
 between July 1 and 20. Male blossom will appear first. Males are on long stems
 with a rod like structure inside the flower which is coated with pollen. The
 first open male flowers will generally be towards the center of the plant.
 Female flowers are on a short stem, and have a small round yellow pumpkin
 behind the flower. 'The first female flower to open will be out from the center
 of the plant on one of the vigorously growing vines. In the absence of bee
 activity or to get an earlier set, the grower my hand pollinate a newly opened
 female blossom with several of the fresh male flowers. Pick several newly
 opened male flowers and tear away the yellow flower portion, exposing the
 pollen bearing stamen . Leave part of the stem to use as a handle and gently
 roll the pollen from the males onto the stigma in the center of the newly
 opened female blossom. Depending on temperature and weather, this is generally
 done from early to mid morning. Males from the same plant as the female to be
 pollinated, may be used, (self pollinated). However-,: for best seed quality,
 it is best to use males from a separate and not closely related plant, (cross
 pollinated). The plant must be large enough to support a fast growing pumpkin,
 therefore setting a fruit too early can have a negative result. The plant
 should have a minimum of 100 - 150 leaves before a pumpkin is set. 
 PRUNING: To avoid rampant crossing vine growth, it is
 advisable to trim and prune. Generally 3 - 5 primary vines are allowed to grow
 out from the center of the plant in different directions. Side vines will
 develop on each of the primary vines, alternately at each leaf.. These side
 vines are allowed to grow, but are trained away from one another or pinched
 back before they cross. These side vines would in turn produce their own set of
 vines alternating at each leaf.. The third set of vines (tertiary vines) are
 removed from each secondary vine when they are small or in the bud stage. This
 results in a more open plant with better air circulation, which can help
 prevent disease problems. A pumpkin can be set on each of these primary vine
 structures. After 2 - 3 weeks select down to the best 2 pumpkins. 
 STEAM STRESS: Stress or tightness can develop
 where the stem of the pumpkin attaches to the vine. The vine must lift off the
 ground as the pumpkin grows taller. The vine will be rooted to the ground on
 the under side. These roots must be severed several feet each way from the
 pumpkin. Also as the pumpkin grows the shoulders of the fruit on the stem end
 my contact the vine and create stress. This usually happens on the side away
 from the center of the plant. The pumpkin may be moved very slowly 1 inch per
 day until it is at a 90 degree angle to the vine, ( both shoulders equal
 distance from the vine on each side of the stem). Never move the pumpkin early
 in the morning as the stem and vines are brittle when it is cool. Adjustments
 should be made a little at a time in the afternoon, starting when the pumpkin
 is approx. basketball size. 
 It is helpful to have the pumpkin growing on the outside
 of a curved section of the vine. In this way the pumpkin will have more room to
 develop without pushing on it&#146;s vine. The vine can be manipulated at the
 time of fruit set, so the female blossom is on the outside of a curved section
 of the vine. Stem stress symptoms can develop very quickly with a fast growing
 pumpkin. The vines near the pumpkin should be checked frequently for tightness.
 As the pumpkin grows taller, several feet of vine will be supported by the stem
 of the pumpkin in both directions. It is helpful to support the weight of the
 vine with blocks of Styrofoam or other material in order to take the stress of
 the stem. 
 Shading: When the pumpkin is small, it will be shaded by
 the leave of the plant. When the pumpkin grow larger, shade should be provided.
 Shading reduces the aging stress of direct sunlight on the tender skin of the
 fruit, and allows the shell to expand and stay flexible longer. Shading also
 reduces the internal temperature of the pumpkin, reducing the threat of rotting
 or splitting 
 Splitting or cracking: Each year many large pumpkins
 crack or split while growing at a rapid rate. We walk a fine line. The grower
 wants his pumpkin to grow as fast as possible in order to reach a large size,
 and as a result may step over the unmarked line ( Sustainable growth curve).
 Some seed stocks are more at risk than others, especially those with genetic
 potential to produce pumpkins over 700 lbs. Some factors which may help to
 avoid splitting include: 
 -Try to grow your pumpkin at an even moderate pace over
 the entire season. -Avoid large doses of fertilizer and water at critical
 phases of the pumpkin growth cycle. - High level of soil organic matter
 and an even concomitant moisture level can help moderate and buffer against
 growth spurts and stops. 
 Multiple fruits on a risky cultivator, may act as shock
 absorbers, spreading a surge in uptake over two or there pumpkins. Minor cracks
 can be managed by applying a fungicide and reducing water and fertilizer to the
 plant. Stem splits often appear much worse than they are. The stem is hollow
 and may split all the way through and tear into the flesh of the pumpkin a
 small amount. Sometimes this releases the stress allowing the pumpkin to
 continue to develop. Treat all wounds sites with fungicide, allow for good air
 circulation, and keep the area dry. Occasionally a stem split or a surface
 crack will continue to expand and deepen until the seed cavity is breached.
 Once the seed cavity is exposed to the outside atmosphere, the pumpkin is no
 longer a viable candidate for competition. No effort should be taken in regards
 to plugging or patching, as the pumpkin will rot from the inside out 
 PESTS AND DISEASE: Problems vary widely from region to
 region. In the Northwest, Giant pumpkin plants are relatively free of pest and
 disease problems. Sometimes black aphids appear o the undersides of the leaves
 later in the season. Aphids can spread the mosaic virus, but this has not been
 a major problem for Northwest growers. It is best to contact an experienced
 local grower for specific problems regards to insect or disease problems
 effecting pumpkins or squash in you area. Where vine borers and cucumber
 beetles are present, plants my need preventative action before pests are
 active . 

[an error occurred while processing this directive]