Pacific Northwest Giant Pumpkin Growers 

[an error occurred while processing this directive]

[an error occurred while processing this directive]

 Pacific Northwest Giant Pumpkin Grower's 

 We would like to invite you and your family
 to become members of the Pacific northwest Giant pumpkin growers (PNWGPG). Our
 organization is dedicated to creating goodwill and friendship through the
 fascinating sport/hobby of growing Giant Pumpkins 
 As a member of the PNWGPG, you will receive
 at least 3 newsletters each year with helpful and informative articles relative
 to growing the "big ones". Club activities presently include a late
 winter/early spring growers meeting complete with seed raffle, and we have two
 Giant Pumpkin competitions to round out the schedule. 

 The Northwest site of the Great Pumpkin 
 Commonwealth Giant Pumpkin Weigh-off, which currently 
 has 21 sites in North America, is held on the first 
 Saturday of October. 

 Listed below is the current list of events
 and weigh offs for the 2001 year. -->
 For visiting this page, we would like 
 to provide some information on growing pumpkins. 
 Come and see what a past world record champion 
 has to say 

 1262 
 Pound Pumpkin 

 Weigh-off Information for 2002 

 SEPTEMBER 6 TH 

 WESTERN WASHINGTON FAIR WEIGH-OFF 
 PUYALLUP,WA 

 OCTOBER 5 TH 

 GPC WEIGH-OFF 
 Coming soon - details about the following PNWGPG weighoff 
 events 

 OCTOBER 19 TH 

 IPA WEIGH-OFF 
 KBSG SCARE HOUSE 
 DES MOINES, WA 

 Events 

 APRIL 18-21 

 SPRING FAIR 
 PUYALLUP, WA 
 Seed sales and information 

 SEPTEMBER 6 TH -22 RD 

 WWF - PUYALLUP, WA 
 (PNWGPG seed sales -weekends only) 

 The vast number of growers in our pumpkin 
 club do their best to help and encourage new growers. Our wish is 
 for you to become a part of what is truly an enjoyable sport/hobby. 
 Membership 
 Pacific Northwest Giant Pumpkin Grower's 
 will provide the following base on the type of subscription. 

 Newsletters only 
 $15 (3 per yr., meetings, seminars) 

 Single
 member 
 $20 (includes above),1 giant pumpkin entry at
 weigh-off, and may enter in all other veggie classes, and automatically will be
 a member of the "Great Pumpkin Commonwealth" (International
 organization) 

 Family
 membership 
 $35 (the above) except; 2 giant pumpkins may be
 entered in the weigh-off and 2 entries per family in all other veggie
 classes 

 Membership fees must be received prior to March
 1 st of the current year to participate in the seed giveaway. 

 The annual membership year starts Jan.1 ending
 Dec.31. The first newsletter for this year will be mailed out early April. The
 letters contain growing tips, stories from fellow growers, meeting notices,
 upcoming events, Weigh-Off Rules, and other tidbits. (photo's too!) We welcome
 you to join us. 

 Submit your membership to: 

 Pacific Northwest Giant 
 Pumpkin Grower's 
 (PNWGPG) 
 P.O. BOX 7504 
 Covington, WA 98042-0044 

 Good Luck to all
 fellow growers this year. 

 Enclosed is the application form for submitting your weigh off pumpkin. Also the
 rules. 
 For visiting this page, we would like to provide some
 information on growing pumpkins. Come and see what a past world record
 champion has to say 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive]

[an error occurred while processing this directive]