How To Grow Atlantic Giant Pumpkins 

[an error occurred while processing this directive]

 [an error occurred while processing this directive]

 So you want to know how to grow a GIANT PUMPKIN? If you keep on
 reading, I will provide you what is required to get the job done. Remember,
 LUCK and a lot of extra work is required to grow a great one. You can do it. I
 know of a grower who grew a 70 lbs. pumpkin on his first year and the second
 year he grew a 977 lb. pumpkin. 
 Can it happen to you? I would say YES! 
 So lets get growing and learn what it takes to grow a large
 pumpkin. 

 Select a link 

 Soil Preparation

 Selecting a Seed

 Propagation of
 Seeds 

 Planting the
 seed 
 Plant care and
 protection 
 Vine fertilizing and
 watering 

 Mounding soil

 Selecting the
 female plant 
 Pollinating
 the blossoms 

 Post fertilization
 program 
 Vine
 positioning 
 Daily measurements
 and selection 

 Shade protection to prevent
 cracks 

 Frequently Asked
 Questions 

 Soil Preparation is the key for any type of plant growth. We are not
 growing a Xeriscape fruit. These pumpkins require the correct soil medium to
 grow to a healthy prize winning pumpkin. Try to find out what your soil
 conditions are currently, and consult your local County agencies for soil
 testing. The soil test will provide the amount of soil nutrients your garden
 contains and provide corrective action to balance your soil for planting. 
 The County or State will provide the test results which is
 defined as the percentage of nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium fertilizer
 needed to correct deficiencies; these percentages are the three numbers found
 on most fertilizers bag s. Follow what they say and amend your soil with the
 compost or fertilizer of your choice. Of course there are many types of
 products to amend your soil, I just added chicken manure. Some people plant a
 cover crop in the winter and amend the soil with a additional manure in the to
 give that extra punch. Now be sure to till your compost in well to provide a
 good planting medium. 

 ORGANIC MATERIAL (COMPOST) PER 100
 SQ. FT. 

 Percent of
 Soil Volume 
 Amount of
 Amendment 

 Depth of Coverage
 (in) 
 At 12 in. 
 At 18 in. 
 Cu. Yds. 
 Cu. Ft. 

 1 
 8% 
 5.5% 
 1/3 
 9 

 3 
 25% 
 16% 
 1 
 27 

 4 
 33% 
 25% 
 1 1/3 
 33 

 6 
 50% 
 33% 
 2 
 50 

 LIGHT AMENDMENTS (VERMICULITE,
 PERLITE, PEAT MOSS) FOR 25 SQ. FT. 

 Amount of Amendment 

 Percent of Soil
 Volume 
 For 12 in. 
 For 18 in. 

 10% 
 2.5 
 3.75 

 20% 
 5.0 
 7.5 

 Here is some additional data on providing compost to your
 soil. Remember, ever garden can use a good compost
 feeding program. 
 Selecting a good genetic seed increases your chances in growing a large pumpkin. To
 get good seeds, .join a local Pumpkin grower
 association or you can order these seeds from Howard Dill or P & P SEED CO. 
 A pot and potting soil are required if you plan on starting your seeds
 indoor. I created a hot house in my garage, which I've started my plants. I
 recommend buying a high quality potting medium that can be purchased at your
 local nursery store. Don't waste your time on buying the cheap stuff. Do it
 correctly and "buy a quality product". Seed germinate takes about seven days if
 the a soil surface temperature is around 80&Eacute; F. This is not a
 requirement, but it is my rule of thumb. Plant the seed in a large Jiffy pot
 with a hole on the bottom or plant it in a gallon pot to be transplanted in the
 near future. I'm lazy and I use a four inch pot. The experts says not the let
 the pumpkin roots get bounded within the pot but what do they know?. Of
 course, I have only grown and 208 pounder which is a pickling fruit. 
 If you plan on planting your seed directly outside see these
 links: 

 Planting the
 seed 
 Starting
 the Giant Pumpkin Seedling 
 Direct
 Start Method 

 Early season plant care and protection
 should be provide to your seedling
 prior to planting outside. Now your ready to plant outside but the problem is
 the last frost is a month away. To resolve this, build a cold frame to protect
 your seedlings. Some people build huge structures and others build a standard
 4'x4'x4' enclosure. I did this last year, but the problem was the cold frame
 was not heated. So this year I plan on providing a electrical heater to keep
 the soil and air temp above normal. If I can, maybe around 65 degrees plus.

 Before you plant the seed on the mound, lay down a sheet of
 black plastic or some sort of material to retain the heat around your seedling.
 If you use plastic, place a drip hose under the plastic so it is between the
 soil and plastic to provide water to the roots. Secure your thermal barrier to
 retain the heat loss. Don't forget to provide a hole for you seedling. 
 Plant your seedling in the elevated mound of soil in your
 cold frame. This will provide the most heat for the buck. I was just reading a
 book on heat transfer within soils and they recommended . . . . . It was boring
 even for an engineer. 
 Early season fertilizing and watering is recommend to provide superior plant
 growth prior to pollination. The recommended liquid solid ratio is 9-35-15. The
 first stage of fertilizing should be based on providing phosphorous for root
 growth, gradually shifting to more balanced formulation with more nitrogen. As
 time progresses, prior to setting the fruit switch to higher potassium
 formulation for development of the set fruit. The plant growth take place for
 around 60 days. Most Big Hitters perfer to use
 Neptune's
 Harvest as a foliar application to fertilizing. Please read there website
 for ideas. 
 Mounding
 soil over the vine to crate a double root system is something I did
 not do last year. This is a must to get that huge hummer. Take your shovel an
 place the dirt over the vine. It is recommended to use the surrounding soil
 versus different types of medium. Most of the prized pumpkins are at least 10
 feet from the main root tap. So pile it on. 
 Select the
 female plant at least 10 feet from the main root tap. Some growers do
 not even pollinate until there is at least 800 leaves on the plant. I
 cant wait that long. I want to see it grow. Don't forget, timing is important
 for pollination. Look at those vital statistic for your local grower or zone
 and see when they pollinated. 
 Back to selecting a female . . . . plant. I assume you know
 the difference between a male and female pumpkin. If not, the female has the
 fruit under the flower and the male is long slender stem with a flower on top.
 Now we have discussed the difference, find a female plant with the correct
 angle on the vine and with five plus segments. 
 I don&ordm;t why the angle is important but they say the
 position of the flower on the vine does effect the selection process. A good
 female candidate should have a stem angle which is almost 90&Eacute;
 (perpendicular) to the vine. If the vine versus the female plant is acute, the
 stem will be more likely to be damage as the pumpkin grows. If you want, you
 could modify the angle with a little TLC. 
 Segments are the cavities which contain the seeds. When you
 look inside the flower, you will see the segments. The female flower is
 characterized by the multi-segment stigma located in the interior of the
 flower. 

 Pollinating the blossoms can be done two ways.
 The primary method is described in Hand-Polli nating Pumpkin Plants. Did you
 read this link? Go back and read it or this will not make any sense. I prefer
 to use a paint brush with camel hair. Why? This is a standard method in the
 horticultural world. It nice to see the pollen on the brush versus rubbing the
 male stamen on the female stigma. How about some more information on
 pollinating at The Pollination Scene.

 Post fertilization
 program is required during this transition from vine growth to fruit.
 During the fruit growth stage switch from the balanced fertilizer to a
 formulations which contains a high percentage of potassium. If you us a water
 soluble fertilizer use a ratio of 1-1-2 or 1-1-3 for optimal growth. 
 Vine
 positioning is required for your main and secondary vines. Positioning
 the vines will provide a proper use of your growing area and reduce vine
 stress. 
 Make sure the vine is perpendicular to the fruit. As the
 pumpkin grows, the shoulders will extend forward, touching the vine. . So if
 the pumpkin grows, the vine will go upward and undue stress will be provided to
 the vine. This can be eliminated by positioning the vines early so they go away
 from the pumpkin. Make a "U" shape or give it some slack. Think Ahead! 
 Stem stress is very common in pumpkins over 200 lbs. In the
 Growing Giant Pumpkins manual, 
 its goes into depth
 on stem stress but basically most people cut off the tap root at the pumpkin
 and a couple on either side of the pumpkin. This allows the vine to raise off
 the ground as the pumpkin grows tall. You can also have trouble with the
 shoulders of the pumpkin growing so large that they push against the vine and
 split it off that way too. When the pumpkin is about the size of a basketball
 you can slowly move the pumpkin perpendicular to the vine. This should be done
 in small steps over a period of a week or you will snap it off. There is no
 warning when the pumpkin is about to crack off so go slow and don't move it
 much each day. Also if the fruit sets on the left side of the vine, you can
 train the vine to the right which gives the shoulders more room. Side vines can
 also wrap around the large pumpkin and cause splits. Train the side vines away
 from the area where the pumpkin will eventually be so there is room. 
 Daily measurements
 and selection is required to assist you in your final choice (if luck
 is on your side). So what is this all about? You now have several fruits on
 your vines and you need to make a decision on which fruit to select for the
 final pumpkin. So, go out there and measure the circumference of each pumpkin
 daily and keep records. From your data, you are able to make that final
 decision for your prize winning pumpkin. 
 But is this the correct decision by understanding growth
 patterns or should you be concerned about the texture of the skin? Does that
 big one have a nice shinny gloss or is it flat? 
 Who knows, its your choice. 
 Shade protection
 should be provide to prevent cracks. See the vital statistics and
 noticed how many big ones had shade protection. Build a frame around your
 pumpkin without stepping on any vines. Some growers us a product called ReMay.
 You should be able to find this at your local Nursery. 
 Well, I hope this helps. Keep in touch and tell me how your
 pumpkin is growing. 
 PUMPKIN MAILING
 LIST 
 Join the mailing list and ask all the questions you
 want. JOIN 

[an error occurred while processing this directive]

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive]