How to plant troughs, Hypertufa, Tufa

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 Alpine Gardening 

 Articles 
 :: 
 Links 
 :: 
 Design 
 :: 

 Listing 
 of Alpine Plants and how to use :: 
 Hypertufa 

 by 
 Mike Bartolone 
 Hypertufa is a cast "rock-like" material 
 which can be used for relatively inexpensive bonsai 
 pots and slabs for plantings. It looks like rock, can 
 be cast into almost any shape, is very lightweight and 
 also strong enough to withstand the freeze/thaw cycle 
 of most northern climates. The American Rock Garden 
 Society uses the following basic recipe to create alpine 
 troughs. They can be textured anywhere from very smooth 
 to a rough rocky look for a "natural pot". 
 Upon reviewing this page, it is highly 
 recommended to visit The 
 Trough Garden page by Alan Grainger and the 
 Trough 
 Design page . The same link is provided above. 
 Ingredients: 

 Cement 
 Dry Portland cement 
 Sand 
 Builder's sand, traction sand, "sandbox" sand; can 
 have relatively large stone particles mixed in (in 
 fact, adds to the texture!) 
 Peat 
 Peat moss, sifted to remove larger lumps and foreign 
 objects 
 Perlite 
 "Normal" garden variety perlite, sifted to remove 
 larger lumps. 
 Vermiculite 
 Pure vermiculite. Many seed starters also 
 contain some kind of compost and/or peat mixed in. 
 This will not work! 
 Fibermesh 
 "Shredded" fiberglass fibers (to add strength) 
 Concrete Dye (optional) 

 All of the following mixtures are used 
 the same way. Mix all of the dry ingredients well, and 
 then slowly add water until you get a thick "mud pie" 
 texture. Shape (pour into a mold) and let cure. Curing 
 can take 1 to 2 months! Molds can be made several ways. 
 One which I think would be fairly easy would be to make 
 an inverted "bowl" shape in sand, and then line the 
 sand with plastic (like a heavy garbage bag). After 
 putting the wet hypertufa into the mold, cover it with 
 the plastic and let it cure covered for a few days. 
 Then uncover it for the remaining cure time. After it 
 cures, you can rough it up with a wire brush, or cut 
 it with a saw. Add drainholes as required using a screw 
 driver or drill. If you want a rough finish, you may 
 need to "melt" any exposed fiberglass using a propane 
 torch or a candle. 
 Blends 

 BASIC 
 1 part cement, 1 part sand, 2 parts peat 
 VARIATION 1 
 1 part cement, 1.5 parts sand, 1.5 parts peat 
 VARIATION 2 [1] 
 1 part cement, 1 part peat, 1 part perlite, 1 part 
 fibermesh 
 VARIATION 3 
 1 part cement, 1 part peat, 1 part vermiculite 
 VARIATION 4 
 1 part cement, 1 part sand, 1 part peat 

 American Rock Garden Society recipe 
 I personally have not used any of these 
 mixtures, although I did see a demonstration of this 
 in October of 1993, and I saw the cured slabs in November 
 of 1993. Keep in mind that the finer the mixture, the 
 smoother the texture of the finished product. 
 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive]
 Website 
 Designed by 

[an error occurred while processing this directive]