Latest Cool Deals from SeaScape 

 Our late booking "specials" 
 list: 

 During the summer season, we do sometimes get last minute 
 cancellations, etc, on which we can offer some great late booking deals. 
 Also any trips which have a particularly interesting/different 
 slant, we'll post here too.
 Stay tuned if you can travel at short notice!
 If you'd like to get our "last min specials" updates via emaildo contact 
 us. 

 27th Aug 2004 , Greetings from sunny Leros!

 OCTOBER in the MED 

We know lots of people think that the best of the summer's all over in the Med by end of Sept... and in the
more northern parts, that's often true ! Even in Greece, the weather can be a little "dodgy" - sometimes it's 
lovely still, sometimes we get cooler, cloudier stuff and nasty southerly winds.

Hence the reason we sail south to Turkey for this time of year ! It is quite amazing how much difference there
is, given the short geographical distance. October in Turkey is wonderful 
- in fact, it is one of our SeaScape crew's favourite times of the season ! The main tourist crowds have gone 
home, and there is a beautifully relaxed and mellow ambiance. Still great swimming/sunbathing temperatures,
but not too hot to go explore the many antiquities around the bays where we anchor.

If grabbing some of the last summer sunshine appeals! - we still have a few spots on our Oct 3-12th trip 
(and our "mostly singles" boat could sure use a few more guys !! :>). We have three yachts sailing together on
this trip, a lot of social fun!

For the second half of Oct, we are much quieter, and as we'd really love to stay down there ourselves longer ! :)
- we'd be happy to entice folks out with a super-dooper 25% off deal on any our trips from Oct 13th onwards...
 Email us for more info !

If you'd like to get our "last min specials" updates via email&#151;do 
 drop us a line! 

Summer 2004's Cool Deals

OCTOBER

 Oct 3-12 or Oct 3-9 Turkey

We have three boats sailing on these trips - one doing a specifically one week route, the other two on a 
10 day trip. The group is a mixture of singles and couples - age range from late 30s to late 50s. Our singles
boat has just a couple of spots left - and hey guys, we could use a few more men on board to balance things out a 
bit! :) Age group for the singles boat is from mid 40s-mid 50s so far... 

Cost: normally $1450 USD pp / 10 days - our late booking "cool deal" is $1195 USD / 990 euros. For the 1wk 
trip, it's $795 USD / 660 euros. Includes all our "usuals" of course! (see below). 

Oct 14-20 or Oct 14-23 Turkey 

Sailing in the Bay of Fethiye - one of the prettiest cruising areas around here! A wonderfully sheltered bay, indented all around with picture-perfect anchorages, some with 
tiny family tavernas, some where we can just drop an anchor and enjoy a dinner under the stars. Then there's 
Gocek and the town of Fethiye, for a little more "action" ! - or a trip up the Dalyan river to see the 500BC
cliff tombs, the ancient city of Caunos - and wallow in the (supposedly healthy and definitely very fun!!)
mudbaths!

This is so far a fairly quiet time for us, and our schedule has some flexibility - so if you're interested,
just drop us a line ! Our private group rates are 25% off from Oct 13th onwards... 

 Our SeaScape prices always include: 
 Provisioning for: breakfasts lunches soft 
 drinks fruit & snacks open bar 
 (local beer, wine, liquors) 
 all boat running expenses - fuel water 
 mooring fees insurance end cleaning 

 SeaScape skipper sailing instruction if 
 desired 
 In short, once you are on the boat, everything is 
 covered, with the one exception of dinners (usually ashore in a local 
 taverna) - and any personal expenditure on the 
 land.