Weddings by Retired Judge Carolyn J. Hayek 

 Contents of this page: 

 Schedule a Wedding 
 Judge Hayek's Background 
 Marriage Licenses 
 Information for Judge 
 Ceremonies 
 Hints 
 Locations 
 Other Officiants 
 After the Ceremony 

 Links: 
 Dates Available 

 Simple Ceremony 
 Special Ceremony 
 Rehearsal Checklist 

 Plaza Map 
 Legal Information 
 AAUW 
 Kirkland-Redmond AAUW 
 AAUW ESL Project 
 Unitarian 
 Universalist Church 
 Eliot 
 Institute 
 Rev. Aikman 
 Photo 
 People's Memorial Asso. 

 Based in downtown Kirkland , 
 Judge Hayek performs weddings on Saturdays and Sundays only throughout the Puget Sound area, in homes, 
 halls, hotels and parks. The fee for downtown Kirkland weddings is $150. Judge Hayek's fee for most other wedding locations in King and Snohomish County is $200.

 To schedule a wedding To schedule a wedding 
 with Judge Hayek from 3 weeks to 6 months before your wedding date, first check to see if your date is available by looking at the schedule of available dates . Then send Judge Hayek an e-mail (CarolynJH@aol.com) . E-mail is the preferred means to request information, since the message can be answered late at night. In your message, please include your evening and week-end phone numbers, date, time and location of wedding, and the full names of both bride and groom.
 In most cases, Judge Hayek will respond to e-mail messages the same day. If you have received no response in 48 hours, please try again. If the date is available and you choose to schedule your wedding with Judge Hayek, a deposit of $50 will be required to hold your date and time on her calendar.

 Background Judge Hayek is a graduate of 
 Carleton College , 
 Northfield, Minnesota, and the University of Chicago Law School . She 
 practiced law for nine years, half of that time with a large corporate law 
 firm in downtown Seattle and half that time as the proprietor of her own 
 firm in Federal Way, Washington. She served as a full-time judge of the 
 Federal Way District Court for 13 years from 1982 to 1995. Judge Hayek is currently employed part-time as Executive Director of the People's Memorial Association . She is also an active member of the 
 American Association of University Women 
 (AAUW) , and the Unitarian 
 Universalist Church . Judge Hayek spends much of her time performing 
 community service in the local community. She is currently serving a 4-year term on the Kirkland Planning Commission. She has coordinated an English as a Second 
 Language Project for AAUW and has served as webmaster of Eliot Institute . A portion of every wedding fee is 
 donated to charity. Judge Hayek is listed in Who's Who in America . 

 Obtaining a marriage license A marriage license must be 
 obtained no more than 60 days but at least three days before the date of 
 the wedding. You may apply in person or by mail. In King County, a 
 marriage license costs $54. Call (206) 296-3933 for more information. In Snohomish County, a marriage license costs $54. Call (425) 
 388-3627 for more information. Wedding licenses are valid throughout the 
 State of Washington. 

 Information for the Judge 

Two to six weeks prior to the wedding, send a 
 package of documents to: Judge Carolyn J. Hayek 102 State St. 
 #206 Kirkland, WA 98033-6674 
 Include the following: 

 The original marriage license and accompanying documents. (Please remember to fill in the personal background information and social security number on the Health Dept. form.) 
 A note confirming the date and time of wedding. (Judge Hayek will 
 plan to be there 15-30 minutes before the stated time.) 
 Directions and a map to the wedding location. 
 Names of two witnesses who will sign the marriage paperwork along 
 with you on the day of the ceremony. They should be age 18 or older. 
 Your phone number and e-mail address (if available). 
 A copy of the wedding ceremony you wish to use. This can be one of 
 the ceremonies posted to this website (with or without modifications) or 
 another ceremony you have found or created. 
 The unpaid balance of the wedding fee, payable by check to Carolyn J. Hayek 
 Emergency phone number for wedding location. While it has never 
 happened in many years of performing weddings, Judge Hayek would like a 
 number to call to reach you in case her car breaks down or there is an 
 accident on the way to the wedding. 
 Please be sure to use the correct postage. At least two stamps will be 
 required. If you prefer to bring the paperwork by in person, please 
 call first to arrange a time. A map of downtown Kirkland will help you find Judge Hayek's location.

 Wedding Ceremonies Judge Hayek usually 
 uses either the simple 
 wedding ceremony or the special wedding 
 ceremony , but either ceremony can be modified by the parties in any 
 way they choose. Click on the name of the ceremony to see the complete 
 text. Weddings can be performed in English, Spanish, or German. You can also find sample wedding ceremonies in the book Into the Garden: A Wedding Anthology , edited by Robert Hass & Stephen Mitchell. The book also contains (pages 151-155) some very thoughtful quotations from Rainer Maria Rilke. Another book to look at is Robert 
 Fulghum's From Beginning to End . It contains some interesting 
 thoughts about wedding ceremonies. You may also 
 want to look through books in the library or your local bookstore for 
 ideas. 

 Hints for a Successful Wedding Based on Judge 
 Hayek's many years of experience officiating at weddings, she can often 
 offer practical suggestions to make your special day go more smoothly. 
 Click here to read 
 some of her suggestions. Also, you might find her Rehearsal Checklist useful. 

 Wedding Locations While many weddings are 
 performed in hotels, country clubs, or community centers, many other 
 locations are possible. One of the most popular places to get married is 
 in your own home or the home of a friend or relative. Other inexpensive 
 locations include the clubhouse of an apartment or condominium complex 
 where you or a friend or relative live, a gazebo or shelter in a public 
 park, or a restaurant, either in a private room or in the normal dining 
 area during a time when the restaurant is not crowded. Your local Chamber 
 of Commerce can also help you find an appropriate facility to rent. 

 In Kirkland , the 
 Woodmark Hotel , (425) 827-1986, and the Shumway Mansion , (425) 823-2303, 
 are popular rental locations. The pavillion in Marina Park provides a 
 scenic outdoor setting. For park information call (425) 803-2845. An 
 unusual site for small weddings (2 to 10 guests) is The Grape Choice Wine 
 Shop located in an historic building at 220 Kirkland Avenue. Kirkland Mayor 
 Larry Springer is the friendly proprietor. Northlake Unitarian Universalist 
 Church , in downtown 
 Kirkland , is available for rental at a very reasonable cost. The 
 officiant for weddings at the church may be a minister or a judge. For 
 further information, call 425-822-0171. 

 Other Officiants In the State of 
 Washington most District Court Judges are available to perform weddings. 
 Many are willing to come to your location. You can find their names and 
 numbers in the phone book, listed under "Government-County-District 
 Court." For more information see the short list of phone 
 numbers for King County judges or the state court 
 directory . Seattle Municipal Court has a wedding request form on-line. You can find it at: http://www.pan.ci.seattle.wa.us/courts/judmag/marriage.htm .

 You may also want to consider a minister of the Unitarian Universalist Church. The Reverend Amanda Aikman is available for wedding ceremonies as well as pre-marriage counseling. Her website will answer many of your questions. Or, call the University Unitarian Church in Seattle at (206) 525-8400 for another referral. Consider also Saltwater Unitarian Universalist Church at (253) 839-5200 for information about wedding officiants.

 After the Ceremony 
You will keep the ceremonial wedding certificate. Be sure you put it in a safe place because Judge Hayek is not able to replace lost certificates. Judge Hayek will mail the other paperwork to the county for filing. After ten days you can request a certified copy of the Marriage Certificate from the Marriage License Office of the county where the license was obtained. For marriages recorded with the King County Marriage License Office , you can also view marriage certificate filing information on-line to verify that the certificate was filed following the ceremony. 

 Updated Aug. 26, 2002