Thursday, January 31, 2002 

 Dragon
 Vocalese 

 aka. 
 The Fat Lady Sings 

 Thursday 
 January 31, 2002 

 Previous 
 Index 
 Next 

 Email me 
 Vocalese Notify
 List 
 Vocalese
 Stuff - take a look! 

 I'm voting 
 San Francisco 
 Journalcon 2002! 

 Gallery (temp. offline) 
 Poetry 
 Listening 
 Books, Movies,
 Etc 
 Baubo's
 Brain - more stuff to look
 at... 
 Low-Carb
 Recipes 
 Favorite "Regular" Recipes 
 Julie's
 Wish List 
 So
 you wanna be a scifi/fantasy writer? 

 Other
 Pac NW Journals 
 The Diary
 Registry 
 Three Way Action 

 Sans Fig
 Leaf 
 Journal of a Writing Man 
 Nekkid, Clueless,
 & Feelin' Good 
 Darn Tootin' 
 Glue 
 Becky Says 
 The Dragon's Lair 
 Footnotes 
 More Than This 
 Page
 By Page 
 Wondering Jew 
 Observing Now 
 Abada Abada 
 Abeyance 
 Abstract Thoughts 

 Busy day. 

 I've actually been working today. Calling around looking for somewhere to
 do some testing.

 Hello my name is Julie and I'm with Blah-blah-blah. We do psychological
 and educational assessments and we're currently doing a neuropsychological
 assessment study in the area. We're looking for a site where test subjects
 can meet with researchers... 

 Over and over.

 I also had to make a run to the grocery store for yet more cat food. Woody
 goes through a huge amount of food daily, and - of course - he's picky about
 what he'll eat. If there's not enough gravy, get ready for the yowling. He
 reminds me of a skinny, bony, little old man... rattling his silverware on
 the table and screwing his face up into a yell until he gets his way.

 A friend online pointed me toward Stephen King's website today, and I went
 browsing over there. I found the page where the details of the
 On Writing 
 exercise are... there are links to "winning" entries, as well. Interesting
 reading.

 I finished up editing Chuck's story Daedalus last night - it's always
 a pleasure to read his work! It's even more fun to listen to him reading
 his own stories, his voice full of humor and so perfect portraying the
 characters. He's even adept at using semi-colons outside of dialogue in a
 way that doesn't bug me too much. ;)

 Now I just need to make a copy of the edits so that both he and Gene will
 get one...

 And THAT makes me want to go back to OfficeMax and get that
 printer/fax/scanner/copier I was looking at. There are a few things I miss
 about working in the office (the friends I'd had there, mostly), but the
 one I notice the most often, as shallow as it might seem, is the lack of
 access to a copier. Now that I'm working again, even on a part-time basis,
 not having a copier nearby keeps tripping me up during paperwork.

 Completely unrelated, but the above brought it to mind... before I was laid
 off last year, some people I counted amongst my friends were folks from work.
 I considered them my friends. Then, after the layoff, they all... well, just
 disappeared. I know - kind of - where most of them are and what they're doing,
 but none of them have made any effort to keep in touch. (Excepting Gene,
 of course, but since we were well acquainted long before I started working
 there, his case is different.) Not a one has called me up to say hi. Not
 even the co-worker who I drove home the night he and his wife got smashed
 at the Pinkslip Party; the same guy who tossed his cookies in my car.
 One who, over three plus years at the company, I considered myself close
 to.

 It'll give me a different perspective, should I ever work in an office again.
 It'll be easier to remember that those people and I are brought together
 through artificial circumstances... they're not really that interested in
 my life. Any conversations that indicate otherwise are probably just a way
 to pass the time, and shouldn't be taken very seriously. *shrug* I can't
 guarantee I won't be interested in their lives - that's just the way I am.

 (And, if by remote chance should one of those past co-workers read this...
 well, hello there! Drop me a line, eh?)

 Previous 
 Index 
 Next 

 Email me