Friday, January 18, 2002 

 Dragon
 Vocalese 

 aka. 
 The Fat Lady Sings 

 Friday 
 January 18, 2002 

 Previous 
 Index 
 Next 

 Email me 
 Vocalese Notify
 List 
 Vocalese
 Stuff - take a look! 

 I'm voting 
 San Francisco 
 Journalcon 2002! 

 Gallery (temp. offline) 
 Poetry 
 Listening 
 Books, Movies,
 Etc 
 Baubo's
 Brain - more stuff to look
 at... 
 Low-Carb
 Recipes 
 Favorite "Regular" Recipes 
 Julie's
 Wish List 
 So
 you wanna be a scifi/fantasy writer? 

 Other
 Pac NW Journals 
 The Diary
 Registry 
 Three Way Action 

 Sans Fig
 Leaf 
 Journal of a Writing Man 
 Nekkid, Clueless,
 & Feelin' Good 
 Darn Tootin' 
 Glue 
 Becky Says 
 The Dragon's Lair 
 Footnotes 
 More Than This 
 Page
 By Page 
 Wondering Jew 
 Observing Now 
 Abada Abada 
 Abeyance 
 Abstract Thoughts 

 I got back late last night, and thought about making a quick
 entry then... 

 ...but decided to be domestic for a while, instead. Mike and I haven't spent
 much time away from each other since when we first met, and being away five
 days was plenty for me.

 It was a long week. It's been months since I've worked regularly, and getting
 up early every morning, gussying m'self, getting breakfast, and walking in
 the cold to the office is not something I'm used to anymore. Overall, though,
 it was a good time.

 Got there early Monday morning, checked into the
 Mallory (a
 wonderful place to stay, I might add), then found my way downtown to the
 office by cab. We spent the day training, talking, and had a congenial business
 lunch at the
 Southpark where
 I had an excellent chicken tagine. More training, and then I walked back
 to the hotel... and really, I'm not used to walking much anymore, especially
 not in girly shoes. I was huffing and puffing by the time I arrived in my
 room - ugh, I am so dreadfully out of shape!

 Earlier in the day I'd made all sorts of plans for where to go for dinner.
 There are a huge number of great restaurants in downtown Portland, and I'd
 picked out a few I thought I'd try... but first, I wanted to go to
 Powell's .
 It's been years since I've been there, even though it's really not that far
 away and a worthwhile day trip from Washington.

 (By the way... if you use the Powell's website to order books, you might
 consider using the
 link containing
 the partner ID of the store worker's union. The workers will get a kickback
 that way, and they deserve it. In other words, use the above link for your
 Powell's bookmark, eh?)

 I drove over to Powell's and braved their parking lot, not realizing that
 there wasn't an elevator for the lot. Ouch. Powell's already has a huge number
 of stairs, and adding those in the lot didn't help any. I didn't keep track
 of the time I was there, but I know it was at least a couple of hours. I
 found several out of print and hard to find scifi books, and when I left
 it wasn't because I didn't have other things to look for, but simply because
 I was tired. Powell's would be well-advised to add some seating here and
 there for people to rest - after all, the store is so huge that it's easy
 to get overwhelmed and over-tired while wandering in there.

 Eventually I made it back to the Mallory and discovered their dining room
 closes early. I looked through my list of prospective dining locations...
 and realized they were all a $5-$10 cab ride away. I didn't want to drive
 myself (I don't know Portland all that well in the daylight, and in the dark,
 well...), and it seemed silly to spend so much money to just get to those
 places in the first place. The fellow at the front desk suggested that I
 use room service, so I shombled up to my room and took a look at the menu.

 And really, I'm glad I did. I was able to unwind, turn on the television
 and veg out for a while, kick off my shoes, and order an excellent steak
 perfectly prepared and delivered to the comfort of my room. Yeah, room service
 is expensive, but still less so than a cab ride to those other place. I was
 a happy girl.

 (A shomble, by the way, is a shuffling womble. Just so's you know.)

 (Oh, and a womble? That's a sort of side-to-side casual amble.)

 (Really!)

 Anyhow, the rest of the week was full of lots of training and room service.
 I never did get out to any of those other restaurants. I had room service
 for breakfast and room service for dinner, and I got to eat while I watched
 Buffy on Tuesday, and I was comfortable and smiling. It was a tiring week
 of training and my brain is over-full, the driving down, back, and around
 was tiring as well... and I'm glad to be home!

 Previous 
 Index 
 Next 

 Email me