Saturday, February 2, 2002 

 Dragon
 Vocalese 

 aka. 
 The Fat Lady Sings 

 Saturday 
 February 2, 2002 

 Previous 
 Index 
 Next 

 Email me 
 Vocalese Notify
 List 
 Vocalese
 Stuff - take a look! 

 I'm voting 
 San Francisco 
 Journalcon 2002! 

 Gallery (temp. offline) 
 Poetry 
 Listening 
 Books, Movies,
 Etc 
 Baubo's
 Brain - more stuff to look
 at... 
 Low-Carb
 Recipes 
 Favorite "Regular" Recipes 
 Julie's
 Wish List 
 So
 you wanna be a scifi/fantasy writer? 

 Other
 Pac NW Journals 
 The Diary
 Registry 
 Three Way Action 

 Sans Fig
 Leaf 
 Journal of a Writing Man 
 Nekkid, Clueless,
 & Feelin' Good 
 Darn Tootin' 
 Glue 
 Becky Says 
 The Dragon's Lair 
 Footnotes 
 More Than This 
 Page
 By Page 
 Wondering Jew 
 Observing Now 
 Abada Abada 
 Abeyance 
 Abstract Thoughts 

 Spirit concert review 

 Time to rave about last night's concert... it was fabulous! It's really nice
 to sit in the audience and get to hear my chorus, now and then, and last
 night was no exception.

 For the past few years we had been performing at Benaroya Hall in Seattle,
 but due to financial constraints the concert was moved to the large and beautiful
 sanctuary at the Plymouth Congregational Church. As the theme of this concert
 was Spirit , it was actually quite an appropriate move.

 Act One of the concert - traditionally SLGC's "more serious half" - was
 chock-full of beautiful spiritual music from many traditions. Divided into
 five themes of elemental spirit, earth, air, fire, and water, the songs embraced
 Native American, Christian, non-denominational, and "general spiritual" (in
 the sense that it was spiritual, not religious, and often nature-based)
 traditions. My favorites included This We Know (a capella, words
 attributed to Chief Seattle, music by Ron Jeffers) and Keep Your Lamps
 (a capella spiritual, arranged by Andre Thomas).

 Special guest percussionists Om Bili added a great beat to several of the
 pieces, although unfortunately with the change of venue there were times
 when it was difficult to hear the chorus over the drumming. But overall,
 the contribution by the group was worth having them there.

 At the intermission, current chorus president Brian Watson walked to the
 podium for the usual President's Blurb, aka State of the Chorus Presentation.
 This is the chorus' 13th year, and so I've heard a lot of chorus presidents'
 speeches. I have to say, however, that Brian's was the best of all those
 that I can remember. It was humorous, it was touching, it was honest, and
 it was of an appropriate length. The chorus is in pretty dire straights right
 now, financially, and Brian was forthcoming about the realities and the need
 for donations to keep it going. He did it with both humor and sensitivity.
 He noted Chris Smith's recent passing, and dedicated the concert to Chris.
 "We know he'd appreciate the attention," he said. And oh yes, Chris would.
 :)

 Intermission, and then it was on to a much shorter second act. This is the
 "fun half" of our concerts, and they didn't disappoint. I was entranced by
 Once Upon a December (from the movie Anastasia ) - I love that
 song, and had forgotten it was on the program. (I rehearsed with the chorus
 this season for about a month before taking leave, so had sung most of the
 music I heard last night.) There was When I Grow Up, I Wanna Be , a
 medley of songs arranged by the director, John Kelleher. The chorus members
 drew on prop clothing and accessories to become one of four, either a cowboy,
 princess, superhero, or baseball player. Gender bending all around (with
 an appearance of some magnificent boobies by Ryan, someone I never expected
 would wear them so well), a lot of fun and hilarity, and all had a great
 time.

 The concert closed with Prayer of the Children , a wonderful piece.
 The lyrics are serious and questioning in nature (...can you hear the prayer
 of the children?) but the music itself is soothing and beautiful.

 Our traditional closing, with We Are Everywhere (by David Maddux,
 a former director of the chorus), featured a twist which we've done in the
 past but that we hadn't used in a few years: having past chorus members join
 the chorus on stage. So out of the audience I came, along with probably twenty
 other chorus alumni, and stood with my friends to sing the last song. It
 was wonderful!

 Good job, guys. I'm proud of all of you! 

 Previous 
 Index 
 Next 

 Email me