main 

Rent-A-Geek 
Computer Help of All Kinds! 
Tutoring Available on Many Areas Including: 
The Internet 
Using Windows 
Linux 
An Introduction to your computer (for new users) 
 Don't know where to start? I can help!
 Know how to get online but want to know how to find what you need?
I can unlock the secrets of the internet for you!
 Want to know more about using MS Windows...files, folders, shortcuts, system settings and more? I can help you get more milage out of your system!
 Maybe you're an avanced user playing with Linux? I can show you how to tame the beast at the shell prompt.

 I can also assist you with upgrades (new hard drive? CD Burner? Video Capture Card?).

Based out of Liverpool, NY...call John at 652-0658.

 $$$ Webmasters can make money! $$$ 

 Click HERE for Free
Internet Access 

 JDLunarLander 
 Click on the vast blackness of space below to play Lunar Lander :-)

Use the space bar for the landing thruster and the left/right arrow keys to spi
n the lander. Try to land on the blue landing pads. Land succesfully and you get half your fuel back. Change the gravity to make it harder.

Have Fun, and try the other games linked below: 

 For a personal glimpse, visit my
original site (don't laugh, it was what I learned on starting with Netscape 1.22). 

 If you are looking for the cooltime site that was here until September of 98, it
is here . 

 This paragraph is full of neat things to try! Check out the zoomable map of the World If you need a Phone Number from anywhere in the world Try This! My general list or Fun Internet Clients/Toys will give you
plenty of free downloads! If you like midi files I have my
favorites here! If you want to find a new Internet
Service Provider The List Can Help You Worldwide! If you want to send someone a C l internet card, Click Here! or you can Send Virtual Flowers For Free! Get free software
from www.shareware.com or www.tucows.com ! More Freebies on my list of favorite internet toys! If You Like Midi Files this ftp site has thousands! 

 Visit
NetRadio 

 For your surfing pleasure I recommend you Download
Netscape Now! This
and many sites are heavily Netscape Enhanced so if you're new to the net or just haven't
tried it, Get It! 

 If you don't like your current ISP (Internet Service Provider) or if you have one
of "the big three" and have never had true unblemished internet access, then I
recomment you check out The List, a well
arranged list of ISPs for the entire world. I find the easiest way to search it is by area
or country code. 

 $$$ Webmasters can make money! $$$