THE RIPPINGTONS AT THE WEBSPOT 

In 1986 Russ Freeman (guitarist, founder, composer) brought friends like Kenny
G and David Benoit into the studio to record his songs on an album called
"Moonlighting." Since then, the band has grown into The Rippingtons,
consisting of Jeff Kashiwa (sax), Tony Morales (drums), Kim Stone (bass), and
Steve Reid(percussion). The Rippingtons have just released their tenth album
entitled " Live Across
America " Freeman explains the Rippingtons progress by saying
" we started out in the studio and then it became a live entity. The
live aspect of it has helped sustain it and helped us grow. " 
 Since The Rippingtons album ("Live in L.A."), Freeman has reunited
with Benoit for "The Benoit/Freeman Project" which involved a tour.
Freeman has now also founded a new record label, called Peak Records, which is
a GRP subsidiary distributed by UNI. The label will focus on hand-picked vocal
pop projects, with Freeman acting as executive producer. Freeman says the label
came about because, "I am very interested in pop music and the vocal side
of it, even though I haven't explored that in my band. I've produced other
artists, and my interest in that area has grown. That's how Peak was
born." 

 Update 

 The Rippingtons have a new album out entitled "Live
Across America". The song line up includes, 
 1. Road Warriors 2. Summer Lovers 3. Welcome To The St. James Club 4.
Hideaway 5. Black Diamond 6. South Beach Mambo 7. She Likes To Watch 8. Jewel
Thieves 9. Rain 10. Avenida del Mar 11. Purple Haze 12. Fire 13. Star-Spangled
Banner 14. Are We There Yet? 

 Purchase this album from
their online store. 

 Photos 

 Russ Freeman 
 Live concert photo #1 , August 8th 1993, Chateau
Ste. Michelle Winery, Woodinville, Wash. 
 Live concert photo #2 , August 8th 1993, Chateau
Ste. Michelle Winery, Woodinville, Wash. 
 Another nice group shot 
 Visit my "Brave New
World" concert experience
page . 

 Discography 

 Topaz 
 Black Diamond 
 Brave New World 
 Sahara 
 Live In L.A. 
 Weekend In Monaco 
 Curves Ahead 
 Welcome To The St. James' Club 
 Moonlighting 
 Kilimanjaro 
 Tourist In Paradise 

 The "LIVE in L.A." video concert is
long out of print. Not sure why but I'm happy to have gotten a copy when it
first came out. Wish I would of purchased a few extra copies. I've heard rumors
that one of the band members wasn't happy with the project or how the concert
tape turned out. I'll try to find out. For myself, I think the concert is
AWESOME!!!! 

Click on the photo for a larger view. 

 Related Sites On the Net 

 The Russ
Freeman & The Rippingtons Offical Web Site 

 Tour
Dates Photo
Gallery Discography 
 Band Bios 
 Listen to their music 

 Jeff Kashiwa - Sax 
 Kim Stone - Bass 
 Dave Kochanski - Keyboard 
 Steve Reid - Percussion 
 Group
Contact 

 The
Rippingtons Fan HomePage . 
 Includes Joining the Fan Club/ Email the Artists Etc. 

 Jeff Kashiwa's Home
Page 
 Saxophone/Flutest / Coastal Access Tour
Dates 

 David Kochanski Home
Page 
 Keyboards 

 Steve Reids Home
Page 
 Percussion / Bamboo Forest Tour
Dates 

 GRP
Records 

 Magic Island Home
Page 

 Bill Mayers' site 

 He does the Jazzcat artwork for their albums. 

 Site Disclaimer 

 This site is an unauthorized and unofficial fan site for the
Rippingtons and is in no way connected to the Rippingtons, their
 official site nor their
management company. This site is for entertainment and informational purposes
only. 

 Back to my main page 

 Email Me using the proper buttons