Tacoma Links 

 Map Of Washington/Tacoma

 Tacoma ,
city, seat of Pierce County, western Washington, a deepwater port on
Commencement Bay (an arm of Puget Sound), at the mouth of the Puyallup River;
incorporated 1884. It is a service and industrial center and a hub of an
important lumbering region. Possessing an excellent natural harbor, it has grown
to become one of the largest ports in the nation. The city also uses this
resource for its fishing and boatbuilding industries. Manufactures include
primary metals, wood and paper products, chemicals, and processed foods. The
city is linked to the Olympic Peninsula by the Tacoma Narrows Bridge (1951); to
the north lies the Seattle-Tacoma International Airport.

 T acoma is the seat of the
University of Puget Sound (1888), Pacific Lutheran University (1890), the
University of Washington-Tacoma (1990), and two large junior colleges and is the
site of the state historical museum. Located nearby are McChord Air Force Base
and Fort Lewis. In the city's Point Defiance Park are a zoo, an aquarium,
Tacoma's first house, a reconstructed logging camp, and Old Fort Nisqually,
which was established nearby to the south by Hudson's Bay Company in 1833 and
moved to this site in 1934. Tacoma is a gateway to Mount Rainier and Olympic
national parks. The community was laid out in 1868 when the site was selected as
a terminus of the Northern Pacific Railroad. A sawmill was established, and in
1873 the railroad was completed. The name Tacoma is derived from the Native
American term for Mount Rainier, which is visible from the city. Population
(1980) 158,501; (1990) 176,664.

 Welcome to
the City of Tacoma's Official Web Site 

 More Tacoma Links

 Puget Hound
Daycare Plus in Tacoma. 
 Tacoma Public Library 
 McChord A.F.B. 
 Tacoma-Pierce County 
 Weather and News 
 Point Defiance Zoo &
Aquarium 
 Metropolian Parks District of
Tacoma 
 Tacoma-Pierce County
Health Department 
 Tacoma News Tribune 
 Tacoma NET 
 Tacoma CommunityCollege 

 Pacific Lutheran University 
 Vashon Island ON-LINE 

 Port of Tacoma - Tacoma/Pierce County Visitor
Centre' 
 Narrows
Bridge Photos - "Galoping
Gurdy" Original bridge collapse. 

 Powerscourt of Tacoma - Platinum Novell Networking Service 
 Tacoma Rainiers
FanClub 
 Natural Choice
Directory of Puget Sound 

 Tacoma Bulletin Board Systems 
 Rich Langsford at the Amocat BBS has
kept a current bulletin board listing for Tacoma since 1989. For those in the
Tacoma area that would like to call BBS's here is the current
 TABBS listing for your information. 
 Links associated with Washington State 

 Travel In
Washington - Outdoor Fun! 
 Live Narrow's Bridge Cam . Great for seeing the
traffic situation on the bridge. 
 Visit the Seattle Needle! 
 Fishing and Hunting News Magazine 

 USA Online - Washington State 

 Online Highways -
Washington State 

 Online
Highways - Tacoma Specific 

 Seattle Mariners Offical Home Page 
- Includes Ken Griffey Jrs. Home page link 
 Lots more links to Washington State 
 My
 Mt. Rainier
Photo Page 

 Dale
Chihuly - World Famous Glass Blower 

 THE TOYOTA TACOMA?

 Toyota has a new truck in its line-up. They named it "Tacoma",
after the second-largest city in the state of Washington. The Japanese are bent
on cracking the U.S. truck market. They haven't been successful so far. I wonder
if this is a new tactic. Name vehicles after cities....Can you imagine? Next
they will come out with: the Nissan "Chicago", or the Mazda "San
Francisco". Somehow, I think they better go back to the drawing board and
be a little more original.

 Click to return to
 Robert's Web Spot