Closeminded Science 

 Mini-forum | 

 Weird Sci. | 

 Skeptical | 

 SEARCH | 

 CLOSEMINDED SCIENCE 
 Examining the negative aspects of the social dynamics of science. 

 ARTICLES 

 BEST LINKS 

 MORE LINKS 

Skepticism is a primary tool of science. We'd be hypocrites if we never
directed a skeptical eye towards Scientific Skepticism 
itself. Denied imperfections and errors are 
free to grow without limit, and Skepticism is not immune to this problem. 
Unbridled gullibility can destroy science, but unbridled disbelief is no
less a threat because it brings both the excessive preservation of the
status quo and the supression of unconventional ideas. Better to take a
middle road between total closed-mindedness and total gullibility. 
Practice pragmatism, pursue humility, and maintain a clear, honest, and
continuing view of ourselves and the less noble of our own 
behaviors.

 RECOMMENDED LINKS: 

 Unconventional claims in science (Truzzi)
 Reporting Scientific Anomalies , R. Westrum
 Scientific belief as obedience to authority , R.A. McConnell
 Strategies for Dissenting Scientists , B. Martin
 Parapsychology, blind faith, and "pseudo-skeptics" , C. Tart
 A Letter to a Dissident Scientist , by B. Martin 
 Stamping Out Dissent , B. Martin
 THE ANOMALIST . Don't miss "Moving the Goalposts" , 
and "Pseudoskeptics" 
 On Scientists and progress: "Hello Stupid" 
 Scientists' treatment of "Heretics" , by Dr. Brian Josephson
 Pseudoscience or Protoscience? 
 The Myths of Skepticism , M. Sofka

 "The most erroneous stories are those we think we know best -- and
 therefore never scrutinize or question." -Stephen Jay Gould 

 ARTICLES HERE 

 New Ideas in Science, Dr. T. Gold, from the JSE (excellent!)
 AGAINST EXCESSIVE SKEPTICISM: collected quotes
 The Symptoms of Pathological Skepticism (Bill B.)

 Ridiculed geniuses, a list 
 Pure Horganism! 
 Cognitive Processes and the Suppression of Valid Scientific Ideas 
 Keep your Bead on the Wire (fm Encyc. of Ignorance)
 The Blind Eye of Science, more BL skepticism
 Contemporary Evolution Heresy (Bill B.)
 Fringe-sci and Crackpots and Breakthroughs, Oh My! (Bill B.)
 They Laughed at the Wright Brothers! (Bill B.)
 Zen and the Art of Debunkery (D. Drasin)
 Recommended Books , Heretic's Bibliography
 That which is not so ( Bill B.)
 The End of Science (Bill B.)
 Maverick Scientists Facing Barriers (fm Boston Globe)
 Scanning-Tunneling Microscope draws hostility, laughter (fm Science News)
 PARASCIENCE vs. PSEUDOSCIENCE (Bill B.)
 List, Abhorrent Ideas in Science (Bill B.)

 PHILOSOPHIZIN' by billb (dejanews archive)

 New theories, scorn, & derision (Bill B)
 "THE OFFICIAL TRUTH" 
 Ball Lightning and Skepticism 
 Never Criticize Science! (Bill B.)
 Sprites, Jets, Skepticism from ISUNY Journal
 Two Sad Stories -- 1996 J. M. Bokris.
 Scientific Censorship and Evolution by Richard Milton
 Maverick Science vs Conventional Science (Bill B.)
 Rules of the Research Game 
 WEIRD SCIENCE section
 FORTEAN section

Please leave COMMENTS !

 "Advances are made by answering questions. Discoveries are made by
 questioning answers." - Bernhard Haisch, astrophysicist

 What is
this? 

 Journey
around the Skeptic Ring 
[ Next Site ] 
[ Prev Site ] 
[ Random ] 
[ List Next 5 ] 
[ List All
Sites ] 

"We do not believe any group of men adequate enough or wise enough to
operate without scrutiny or without criticism. We know that the only way
to
avoid error is to detect it, that the only way to detect it is to be free
to inquire."&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp - J. Robert Oppenheimer

 Dishonest Argument 

If you've ever conversed with a closeminded person, you are aware how 
difficult it is to get your point across and to maintain your cool. You 
might not realize it, but there is are good reasons for this. While some 
people are like scientists and genuinely want to know the truth, others 
are like bad politicians and lawyers: dishonest truth-hiders whose 
only goal is 
to defend and persuade. Below are some of their tactics. Once you're 
familiar with these ploys, you can fight against them (or at the very 
least not let them drive you crazy!) 

 Conversational Terrorism 
 Table of Slick Manuvers 
 the Fallacy Files 

 Handbook 
of Logical Fallacies 
 Fallacies 
I , II , 
 III 
 Links: 
fallacies 
 Fallacious Arguments 

 The fallacy of one-sidedness 
 Clinical Attitude toward Arguments 
 Sham reasoning, pseudo-inquiry 
 Beavis/Butthead logical fallacies 
 Art of Debunkery 
 Propaganda Analysis 
 How to be PERSUASIVE 

 Typical Flamer Types 
 Accidental flamewars 
 Flamer personality disorder 
 Flamers and Bullies 
 The Lying disease 
 People of the Lie (also see the 

book )
 'Flame' 
 and 'Troll' 

 Recommended Websites: 

 Velocity press: Forbidden Knowledge 
 Prof. Tangent , nutrition for the mind
 Zeteticism.org , EXCELLENT (articles, links, quote)
 MENSA column: alternative science 
 R. Milton & Neodarwinism 
 Sham reasoning, pseudo-inquiry (1997 CSICOP) 
 Skeptical look at Astrology (skeptic, not cynical materialist)
 Love of the Marvellous and the Disbelief of the True 
 The Burden of Skepticism (Sagan)
 On Skepticism (symptoms of pseudoskepticsm)
 Disciplined Minds (book) Scientists are trapped in Dilbert-land too!

The New Thought Police Suppressing Dissent in Science 
(from ISIS News )
 Ethics in Science (Bauer)
 anti-CSICOP forum 
 Delphi forums: debunking debunkers 
 A Habit of Lies: how scientists cheat 
 Logical trickery of UFO skeptics 
 The Logical Trickery of the UFO Skeptic 
 Could Gambling Save Science? 
 Meteor Noises 
 Magicians endorse PSI? 
 Truth-seeker's mindset: 
 Cargo Cult Science, (R. Feynman)
 The Clinical Attitude toward Arguments (Suber)
 Fallacy of one-sidedness (Suber)
 Pseudo-inquiry 

 Skeptic Satires 
 How NOT to argue with Creationists (Lippard)
, and reply 
 The rise of moderation in skept. orgs (S. Hall)
 Debunking Common Skeptical Arguments (W. Wu)
, and a rebuttal 
 Some Failures of Organized Skepticism (Lippard)
 Dishonest science 

 CSICOP sTarbaby scandal 
 sTARBABY Rawlins vs. CSICOP
 Crybaby (response to Rawlins)
 True Disbelievers (response to Crybaby)
 Mars Effect Controversy: timeline 

 Does psi exist? (Bem & Honorton)
 Links at SKEPTIC mag: critiques of skept.
 CSICOP and the Skeptics: An Overview 
 Morphostasis : immune-system heresy (excellent!)
 Archeological Outliers 
 Skeptics: what they do and why 
 Pseudo-critical thinkers 
 Kit Pedler's MIND OVER MATTER: a scientist looks at the paranormal

 Evidence, Experiments, and Bigots 
 Spoon benders and others 

 Conceptual Conservatism 
 The Plight of the Obscure Innovator 

Creationism: You asked for it (fm New Scientist mag)
 Scientific belief as obedience to authority 
 Freethinker page 
 Keynote Address at 6th Int'l Symp. on Ball Lightning
 Getting 'heresies' published 
 "Your Endangered Mind", 
Lecture and online book , R. Herrman, USNA mathematics
 Journals and organizations for "dissident" science research.
 Refreshingly humble scientific view of evolution/creationism 
 Dr. Arp's heretical discoveries
 More on Arp vs. Academia 
 About Arp 
 (from Arp Peculiar Galaxy Club )
 Laser Stars 
 Critical Thinking (links) 
 Remote Viewing vs. Its Skeptics 
 Suprise! results always require interpretation. hilarious!
 Evolutionary Heresy: altruism 
 Sturrock-Rockefeller UFO Panel vs. the "skeptics" 
 Deep Hot Biosphere , more T. Gold heresies!
 The Anti-Closed-Mind Site 
 Dr. B. Pollok's SAFESCIENCE 
 Scientific Integrity? whistleblowers beware!
 Stamping Out Dissent , Dr. B. Martin
 Open Questions in Physics from 
 Physics FAQ 
 Scientific Misconduct Page
 Arrogance vs. Stupidity 
 The Mythical "Scientific Method" 
 Pseudoscience or Protoscience? 
 A Science Ethics Bibliography 
 M. Cremo's Forbidden Archeology 
 Cargo Cult Science, R. Feynman
 Parapsychology, blind faith, and "pseudo-skeptics" , C. Tart
 Theories and ethical practice in science , course syllabus links
 Characterization of Quack Theories 
 Psy-Zone 
 Maccabee on Science vs. UFOs 
 Science against science 
 The "Fusor" and Scientific Knowledge 
 Critiques of Organized Skepticism 
 The Anti-physics Review 
 Stupid Skeptic Tricks 
 (Lippard)
 Bias in peer review 
 Peer Review: reform or revolution? 
 Weird but true (recommended!) (170K)
 Psi, Grof, Jung, and the Quantum Vacuum 
 Peer review as scholarly conformity , from Suppression Stories 
 A Letter to a Dissident Scientist , by B. Martin 
 The real reason behind suppression of inventions 
 Anomalous Meteor Phenomena 
 "The Golem" , Collins and Pinch debunk scientist's myths
 H. Bauer - Ethics in Science (recommended!)
 Dissident Physics at '95 AAAS meeting 
 Myths of Skepticism 
 Defending Darwinism: How Far is Too Far? from Origins Research 
 Retardation of Science, from Alternate View 
 sci.skeptic FAQ: Aren't all skeptics just closed-minded bigots? 
 Science and Consensus, from EMF-L 
 Discover 5/97, Science vs. Its Own Popularizers : Carl Sagan
 THE ANOMALIST . Don't miss "Moving the Goalposts" , 
and "Pseudoskeptics" 
 Ambiguity in research, Science On-Line
 Scientists' treatment of "Heretics" , by Dr. Brian Josephson
 L. Frank vindicated , new mini-comet evidence (see "Moving the Goalposts" 
and CNN article) 
 Fund for UFO Research 
 Brainmind Bulletin 
 Earth mantel heresies 
 Debunking the debunkers 
 Science Frontiers articles:

 Arp and redshift 
 Temperature affects half-life? 
 T. Gold's deep oil 
 Directed mutation 

 Post-relativist Physics from 'Sumeria' 
 "Three Galileos" , article from Duesberg page
 Aquatic Ape Theory 
 Psi phenomena papers, Frasca page
 The Sourcebook Project , archive of unexplained observations 
 B. Haisch UFO essay from the J. Sci. Exploration 

 Farce of Physics, Dr. B.G. Wallace
 Panspermia: life evolved elsewhere
 Ways of knowning: Science vs. Religion 
 J. Talbot's "Skeptics" quotations 
 The Experts Speak 
 Psychology of Invention 
 Psychology of Science List
 Forbidden Archeology 
 Scientists want to censor a Controversial show . See producer's response. 
 Dr. Margulis' heresies: 

 Gaia and evolutionary cooperation-not-competition
 Endosymbiosis 

 McClintlock's Jumping Genes 
 Heretical catastrophism 
 Descaling water magnetically 

Collected quotes moved to /weird/skepquot.html 

Created and maintained by Bill Beaty . Mail me at: billb@eskimo.com .

If you are using Lynx, type "c" to email.