SPACE, ENERGY AND CREATION: LECTURE NO. 28 

 LECTURE NO. 28 

 SPACE, ENERGY AND CREATION 

 Copyright, Harold Aspden, 1977 

 The printed version of this paper was issued on the occasion when the author, Dr. Harold Aspden, delivered an invited lecture to the students and staff of the Physics Department at the University of Cardiff in Wales in 1977. It is appropriate here, some 25 years on from that date, to draw attention to some aspects of it that warrant special comment in the light of onward developments. The paper itself is in PDF format and can be accessed by pressing the link to it at the end of the text which follows. 

The paper highlights new scientific evidence that should help in our understanding of the creation of the solar system. As there stated, it was based on the author's theoretical investigations into the structure of the vacuum (the aether) and it pointed to a quite simple experimental approach which could possibly verify the effect of the aether in controlling the stability of an electrical discharge by inducing aether rotation about the discharge axis. 

So far as the author knows this suggestion of what could prove to be a very important experiment has not aroused interest and has not, as yet, been performed by our academic fraternity. 

The paper drew attention to three unexplained phenomena evident in laboratory bench testing and related these to the major unexplained phenomena that confront cosmologists. These are (1) the mystery source of energy and angular momentum fed into the solar system at its creation, (2) the mystery of the expected but unresolved unification of the action of gravity and electrodynamic interaction, and (3) and the mysteries posed by the creation of thunderballs. 

Admittedly, the paper had a limited distribution, being a hand-out at that Cardiff event and thereafter given away to those who corresponded with the author on scientific matters of mutual interest. The author was not a active researcher seated in a university and there was hardly any chance of getting a peer-reviewed paper published on the taboo subject of the aether. The aether had been well and truly outlawed by theoretical physicists who were addicted to the Einstein doctrines concerning space-time and its abstract formulations of virtual reality in an imaginary world which depends more on the observer than the underworld of a real aether medium. 

However, the author's private research efforts were progressing and, gradually, the theme of that paper on "Space, Energy and Creation" did gain in strength. Publication in scientific periodicals became easier, thanks to the open-mindedness of the editorial staff of Lettere al Nuovo Cimento , of the Italian Institute of Physics, a research periodical that was published in the English language before its demise in 1986. It was a peer-reviewed periodical offering rapid publication and, though several of the author's papers were found acceptable, there were others which were rejected, an indication that not all of the referees used were of like-minded opinion. 

Now, in the author's writings, certain anomalies in electric arc discharges in ionized plasma having bearing upon the basic law of electrodynamics had been stressed and these eventually attracted the attentions of a Canadian man and wife research team, namely Paulo and Alexandra Correa. They had made a rather breathtaking discovery that, by a method of discharge pulsing using a suitable circuit and a specially configured electrode system in a discharge tube, it is actually possible to generate electrical power by tapping energy from the aether itself. 

Arising from this and our mutual contact at conferences in USA the author wrote ENERGY SCIENCE REPORT No. 8 which was entitled "Power from Space: The Correa Invention", which was published in 1996. By inspecting that Report it will be seen that its final reference [85] is the subject paper "Space, Energy and Creation". That Report No. 8 includes material which, apart from the Correa breakthrough, shows how there has been further development having bearing on the author's observations in "Space, Energy and Creation". 

Now, at the time of writing these words in May 2002, we are on the eve of a conference event in Berlin in which the author will have opportunity to update his further contribution to the insight we have into the scope for tapping energy from the aether and hear also of the onward research of the Correas. It is for this reason that Space, Energy and Creation" is now being added to this web site, as Lecture No. 28, even though it is 25 years on since it was delivered to that university audience in Cardiff. 

Also added at this time is the author's BERLIN LECTURE "Our Future Energy Source - The Vacuum!". 

It is hoped the reader will find these of interest. 

Harold Aspden 
[May 28, 2002]