Summary of Qualifications 

 Over ten years of progressively challenging information services experience in both the public
 and private sectors, highlighted with notable technical achievements.

 Detail-oriented with strong analytical, organizational and problem solving abilities.
 Excellent written and interpersonal communication skills.
 Technology-focused with advanced level computer skills (hardware, software, programming).
 High volume keyboarding and telephone experience. Alpha/10-key by touch.
 Extensive knowledge of paper, microfilm and electronic document management systems.
 Work coordination, production scheduling, training and project management experience.

 Computer
Skills 

 Operating systems: MS-DOS; Windows 3.1 / 95 / 98 / NT4 / 2000; Unix and Linux.
 Programming: Visual Basic, MS-Office VBA; VBScript.
 Web site: design, maintenance and programming with HTML, JavaScript,
 ASP and CSS. Web software - FrontPage, Acrobat, Dreamweaver, text editors;
 Server config in NT and Linux.
 Productivity: Microsoft Office 95 / 98 / 2000 (Word, Excel, Access, Outlook,
 PowerPoint).
 Graphics: image editing, optimization and format coversions (Photoshop,
 Illustrator, PSP).

 Work Experience 

 Puget
 Sound Clean Air Agency , Seattle, WA 

 1997-present 

 Records specialist, Central Files 
 Performed full range of records-related services for internal and external
 customers, including document storage and retrieval, file management with
 manual and computerized tracking, public disclosure requests and general
 administrative tasks. Played a key role in developing the agency's website.
 Provided backup coverage for reception desk and CSRs.

 Enhanced and developed new air quality web products, blending content from a variety
 of sources and formats.
 Created several document templates and complex reports using Microsoft
 Office tools.

 PEMCO Financial Services , Seattle, WA 

 1991-1997 

 1996-1997: Photocopy coordinator, Clearing Services 
 Coordinated production and billing of share draft microfilm services for over
 120 credit unions. Managed retention and storage of microfilm. Pulled returned
 checks, ran adding machine tapes and balanced totals.

 Developed a Microsoft Excel workbook that reduced time to compute
 monthly billing.

 1993-1996: Records Dept. Lead, Policy Records 
 Created schedules and monitored department production and workload.
 Coordinated special projects and audits. Provided regular training and
 backup coverage for all department functions. Handled microfilm equipment
 problems, service calls and minor repairs. Assisted with research and
 cost justification of new equipment purchases. Led and participated in
 standard-setting teams.

 Created an equipment service history database in Microsoft Access that
 helped identify recurring service problems and operator training needs.
 Developed and maintained an automated document routing system.
 Converted several large company publications to electronic format.

 1991-1993: Records specialist, Policy Records 
 Performed data entry indexing and retrieval of insurance policy
 documentation using a computer assisted retrieval (CAR) microfilm
 system. Involved heavy phone traffic and rapid, accurate keyboarding.

 Took responsibility for developing monthly unit rotation schedules.
 Assisted with all phases of CAR system conversion project. Included
 system and equipment testing, development of new workflow procedures
 and training curriculum, and staff training.

 Strategic Weapons Facility Pacific (SWFPAC), SUBASE Bangor , WA 

 1987-1991 

 Supply clerk, Material Support Center 
 Processed supply requests for repair shops using a computerized system. Maintained and
 audited requisition files. Performed routine clerical support duties. Assisted
 technician in preparing items for shipment. Government security clearance held and
 maintained at the secret level.

 Developed email form that replaced a paper report, reducing paperwork
 and mail traffic.
 Received SWFPAC Superior Act Award for outstanding service to the fleet.

 Education 

 North Seattle Community College (enrolled, Computer Science major).
 Professional development training including Customer Relations,
 Communication Skills, Time Management and Effective Writing.
 Attended University of Washington .
 Graduated Bremerton High School .

Last update:

 August 23, 2000 

 cmkinc@eskimo.com