Newsgroups: alt.sci.physics.new-theories,alt.paranormal,sci.electronics,sci.energy,sci.med.physics,sci.misc,sci.physics,[sci.military]
Subject: Interview With Tom Bearden 
Summary: Add one more paper to the Bearden File.  ftp site lupulus.ssc.gov archives the Bearden, et al, papers in subdirectory /papers.
Expires:
Sender:
Followup-To:
Distribution:
Organization: Netcom - Online Communication Services  (408 241-9760 guest) 
Keywords:


***********************************************************************
The following interview with Tom Bearden appeared in a magazine called
"Megabrain Report".  I know little about this magazine.  A photocopy of
the interview was sent to me by a long time reader of 
alt.sci.physics.new-theories.  On request, Tom Bearden himself sent me
an ASCII file of the interview so I didn't have to transcribe it from
the photocopy.  It is dated 4-Feb-1991.

The interviewers were Terry Patten and Michael Hutchison.

In this interview, Bearden talks about several subjects, thus it will be
cross-posted to the pertinent newsgroups.

For more of Bearden's papers, as well as papers by Puthoff, Whittaker,
etc., anonymous ftp to lupulus.ssc.gov .  They are in directory /papers
***********************************************************************

[preamble to interview text]

"Lt. Col. Thomas E. Bearden is a nuclear engineer, war games and weapons
analyst, and military tactician.  He has an MS in nuclear engineering
from Georgia Tech and is a graduate of the US Army Command and General
Staff College and several US Army artillery and guided missile schools.
He has over 30 years experience in air defense systems, technical
intelligence, Soviet electromagnetic weaponry, artificial intelligence,
computerized war games, and antiradiation missile countermeasures.  He is
a senior scientist with a large aerospace company [Colsa Corp.]

Col. Bearden personally developed and published the basis for a drastic
revision of electromagnetic theory and engineering, based on the work of
Whittaker and Maxwell.  His work is primarily responsible for the widespread
interest and research into scalar electromagnetic phenomena in this country
over the past decade.  He is the author of several books on this subject,
including *Towards a New Electromagnetics*, Parts I-IV (Tesla Book Company)."

[end of preamble]



Question:   Can you offer the layman an extremely simplified
summary of  what scalars  are, how  they relate to Maxwell's
equations, unified  field theory,  and  the  limitations  of
currently accepted  quantum physics,  relativity theory, and
electromagnetics?

Whew!   You've asked  for a  complete explanation  of how to
unify the three major disciplines of physics, specify what's
wrong with  the three  present versions of those disciplines
that has  prevented their  unification, and  how this was in
Maxwell's original  quaternion equations  (some 200 of which
are actually  his theory, not the pale four vector equations
written by  Heaviside and  Gibbs).   You also  asked for  an
explanation of  scalars versus  vectors, and how the present
vector analysis  (of Heaviside  and Gibbs)  misses the  boat
with respect  to structured scalars.  And you've asked me to
do it  simply, in layman's terms.  To say that that's a tall
order is the understatement of the decade!

Okay, we'll  have a  go at  it anyway.    We'll  start  with
scalars and vectors.

Basically we  visualize things in the universe as two sorts:
those that  move (have  motion) and  those that  don't.   In
physics we  know already  that this is in error; there isn't
anything in  the universe, anywhere, that is motionless.  At
least it  is moving  through time,  which is still a special
kind of  motion.   Also, we know that everything seems to be
made up  of much  finer things,  and these  finer things are
always in  motion __  often very violent motion.  So what we
observe as a passive thing __ sitting still spatially, so to
speak  __   is  made  up  of  subthings  in  violent  motion
spatially.    And  the  whole  system  that  is  not  moving
spatially is  still moving  in time.   However, we don't see
"time" but  just  space;  therefore  we  see  the  thing  as
"motionless."  However, the "motionless" thing we look at is
rather like  a fixed  whirlpool in  a swiftly flowing river:
the whirlpool  seems to  us to  stay "fixed" and motionless,
but internally its parts (the flowing water) are in constant
motion.

Another example is a container of gas under pressure __ such
as the  air tank  at the service station.  The tank and "the
air as  a whole spatial volume" isn't going anywhere, and we
see them  as "motionless."  But inside the gas its molecules
are in  violent motion, undergoing collisions, etc.  Indeed,
inside the walls of the tank, the molecules and atoms are in
vibrational back-and-forth motion in a spatial lattice.

The point  is, physically  "motion"  and  "motionless"  only
apply to the external characteristics of the object to which
we pin  the  label.    So  it  represents  only  an  overall
characteristic  of  the  object,  and  does  not  completely
describe it.  In a sense "motionless" is filled with motion,
and all is motion.

In vector  analysis, a scalar quantity is considered to be a
quantity that  has magnitude  or size,  but no  motion.   An
example is  pressure; the  pressure of  a gas  has a certain
value of  so many pounds per square inch, and we can measure
it, but  the notion  of pressure does not involve the notion
of movement of the gas through space.  Therefore pressure is
a scalar quantity, and it's a gross, external quantity since
it's a  scalar.  Note, however, the dramatic difference here
between the  physics of the situation and mathematics of the
situation.   In mathematics,  when you  say something  is  a
scalar, you're  just speaking  of a number, without having a
direction attached  to it.   And  mathematically, that's all
there  is  to  it;  the  number  doesn't  have  an  internal
structure, it  doesn't have  internal motion,  etc.  It just
has magnitude  __ and,  of course,  location, which  may  be
attachment to an object.

However, physically, when we say something has pressure or a
scalar value,  that is  not  all  there  is  to  it.    That
particular aspect of the object or system may be scalar, but
internally the  thing it's  labeling can still be decomposed
into subsystems  or particles  or small  things  in  violent
motion.   That  is,  in  physics  the  scalar  quantity  can
mathematically be  further decomposed  into an  ensemble  of
vector quantities.   Since these parts are rushing around in
all directions  but the  whole is  not  translating  through
space, then  obviously  the  sum  of  all  those  fractional
motions must  be zero.  Scalar pressure, for example, can be
decomposed into  a myriad of opposing force vectors per unit
area.

Mathematically, a vector is an entity that not only may have
magnitude or  size, but  is translating  through space.   In
physics, we  apply the  vector concept  to something that is
moving, and/or to position.  However, when we think further,
that "something"  is made  of smaller things, which also are
in violent  motion, and these smaller things may be swarming
all over  the place  with differing  velocities __  or  even
flowing at  high speed  in and  out of  the moving  "system-
thing" represented  by the vector.  So even here, the vector
thing is a special case of an ensemble of smaller things.

In the  physical world,  in anything __ even inside a single
point __  there are always infolded vector things in violent
motion.   We  may  say  that  these  interior  critters  are
"hyperspatial" or  "infolded" or "virtual" or "hidden".  But
they're real  and they're  inside the  point, as seen by the
external observer.

The point  is this:   Everything seen externally is a plenum
internally.  In the real physical world, both a thing that's
externally motionless  (a scalar)  and a  thing  (a  vector)
that's externally  translating through  space,  are  special
cases of a system whose internal parts are always in motion.
If the  sum of  the internal  motions is  zero, the external
object seems  to be  sitting  still  and  motionless  to  us
(though it's  still moving  through time  with __ usually __
uniform motion).   We  describe that internal characteristic
of the  system as a vector zero resultant system. Externally
we may  also characterize  it as  a scalar, because it still
possesses attributes  that have  magnitude.   On  the  other
hand, if the sum of the internal motions is not zero, but is
a motion  in a  certain spatial  direction, then  to us  the
external object seems to be moving along in space.  That is,
it  is  translating  spatially.    Externally  it  has  both
magnitude and  direction, so  we view  it as  a vector.   To
label a  thing as  only a  vector is  to look  only  at  its
external attributes.   To  label a thing as only a scalar is
to look  only at  its external  attributes.   To look at its
internal attributes, it must be recognized as a scalar and a
vector at  the same  time.   That is,  the scalar attributes
must be recognized to be composed on internal vectors.

Summing that  up, physically  a scalar thing is a thing that
(1) is  a vector  in  time,  which  is  hidden  from  direct
observation, (2)  externally is  just a magnitude spatially,
and (3)  has  an  internal  spatial  vector  structure,  and
therefore a  hyperspatial or virtual-state vector structure.
A vector  is a  thing in  motion in  a dimension  (through a
frame), whether  in space,  hyperspace, or time.  Rigorously
it is  not possible  to exclusively  separate the notions of
vector and  scalar,  because  any  scalar,  to  persist,  is
automatically a vector in time.

These concepts  or vector and scalar are normally not nearly
so well clarified in standard physics and mathematics texts,
unfortunately.     Usually  discussions  of  this  type  are
reserved to  obscure papers  in foundations  of mathematics.
It may  surprise the  casual student,  for example, that the
notions of  line, point,  space,  zero,  length,  dimension,
frame,  time,   and  observer   have  no   truly  acceptable
definitions.   Neither do the notions of force, mass, field,
potential, etc.   In fact, mathematics no longer attempts to
explain how  a line  can be  made of  points.   Instead,  in
foundations, it  is  simply  stated  as  three  postulations
thusly: "There  is a class of entities called points.  There
is another  class of  entities  called  lines.    Lines  are
composed of points."

>From a  physics viewpoint,  one of the big problems with the
present vector  mathematics __ which is well-known not to be
a complete  system of  mathematics in  the first place __ is
that the presence of a bunch of vectors that sum to zero  is
just treated  as a  zero or  absence of  any vectors at all.
That is,  the absence of any internal vectors at all is made
synonymous to  the presence  of a  bunch of internal vectors
that are  fighting each  other to a draw.  What this does is
throw  away   the  internal   energy  and  internal  ordered
structuring of the medium __ specifically, the energy of all
the vector  fighters that is continually going on inside the
local medium  __ inside spacetime itself.  Physically that's
quite wrong,  and one  is throwing  away  exactly  half  the
energy of  the situation.   There  is a  very real  physical
difference between  a system of real vectors that fight to a
draw and  so do  not translate  en masse, and the absence of
any vectors  and vector-fighting  at all.  The difference is
composed of  stress and  its internal vector patterns __ the
internal energetic engines in local spacetime and local rest
mass __ in short, the energy trapped in the local medium.

Where electrical  students  meet  this  hidden  problem,  of
course, is  in the  fact  that  the  four  vector  Heaviside
equations of  EM are  not closed.   One always has to assume
that one  or more  of the  "remaining potentials" is zero __
that  is,  absent.    So  right  there  all  the  texts  and
professors reduce  even Heaviside's  equations to  a special
case of  the absence  of any  "left-over and hanging around"
scalar potentials.   As  an example,  that little assumption
gets rid  of any  possibility of  the Aharonov-Bohm  effect,
where potentials alone can interfere, even in the absence of
EM force  fields, and  produce real force effects in charged
particle  systems.     That   is,  the  sole  agent  of  the
interference of  scalar potentials  can induce  EM  changes,
according to the experimentally proven Aharonov-Bohm effect,
even in the total absence of EM force fields.

Since 1959,  it has been known in quantum mechanics that the
EM force fields are not primary agents at all.  We know that
classical EM  theory is  completely wrong on this.  QM shows
that it's  the potentials  that are  primary, not  the force
fields.   In fact,  it can  be shown that the E-field and B-
field do not exist as such in vacuum; only the potential for
the E-field  and the  B-field  exist  in  vacuum.    Feynman
pointed that  out, but nearly all of his modern cohorts seem
not to  have recognized that fact.  Indeed, vacuum is just a
conglomerate of potentials, nothing more, nothing less.  And
if you  just look  carefully at the definitions of force and
E-field, you see immediately that (1) force (nonrelativistic
case) consists  of mass  times acceleration.    Therefore  a
force consists  of an  accelerated mass.   An electric force
consists of  an accelerated  charged mass,  normalized for a
unit.   But it  really isn't  treated that  way  in  the  EM
theory, where  it continues  to  erroneously  considered  to
exist as a force field in the vacuum.

At least  you've got  to use  the adjectives  "virtual"  and
"observable" to  differentiate vacuum  things from  material
things.   One can  correctly state  that a  virtual electric
force field  exists in  vacuum,  comprised  of  accelerating
virtual masses,  but not  an observable  force field.    The
observable electric  force field  requires, and consists of,
accelerated observable  charged particles.    And  the  only
place observable  particles exist  are in a physical medium,
of a  collection of  one or  more  observable  particles  in
space.

So it doesn't take any special powers of thought to directly
show that  there are  some very  serious, fundamental things
wrong with  the present foundations of EM theory.  There are
lots of  other flaws  in EM, such as the fall of the Lorentz
force law in modern railgun experiments.  The law has always
been false,  but is a sufficient approximation if the energy
regime is not too high.  Peter Graneau's work is fundamental
in this respect.

To sum  this up another way: The present vector analysis (as
applied to  electromagnetics) discards the internal, trapped
EM energy  of local  spacetime.  Now if the internal trapped
energy of  spacetime varies  from place  to place,  that  is
called a  curved spacetime,  relativistically speaking.  And
when a spacetime is curved, there is communication of energy
between the  internal, infolded, virtual EM energy state and
the  external,  translating,  observable  EM  energy  state.
Curved one way, the local spacetime is a sink, with external
energy pouring  into it  continually, and  disappearing from
observation of  the external  state.   Curved the other way,
the local  spacetime is a source, with energy pouring out of
it continually, and appearing in observation in the external
state.

What the  present vector  system of  EM does,  therefore, is
throw out  the ability to use the very strong EM force as an
agent to  curve  local  spacetime.    The  very  mathematics
itself, a  priori, assumes  and guarantees  a  locally  flat
spacetime.   And in  an uncurved  region of  spacetime,  for
example, you  are never  going to make an over-unity machine
__ a so-called "free energy" machine that will give you more
energy out than you put in __ because the application of the
vector theory  a priori  guarantees the  elimination of  any
hidden sources  from the  local spacetime  (ST) medium.   If
you're going  to tap  the trapped  vacuum energy, and make a
so-called "free  energy" device,  you're going  to  have  to
curve the  local spacetime.  That is the only way to produce
a local  energy source  in the  vacuum, from which a current
issues.   Notice that, when we put a paddlewheel in a river,
we produce  a free  energy device because we tap some of the
energy in  the flow.   But  we tap a current, we do not just
tap a potential per se.  The entire secret of tapping vacuum
energy, to  build a  free energy  device, is  to  produce  a
current  in   the  local  vacuum  potential  that  is  self-
sustained, and then tap that current.

So the  present EM  theory throws  away exactly  half of the
energetics of the situation involved.  From time to time yet
another  physicist  discovers  that  astonishing  fact,  and
publishes a  paper on  it to  point it  out.    Nobody  does
anything about it, however,  because no one has the foggiest
notion of  what to  do.   So everybody just lets it pass and
nothing is changed.

Question:   Can you  give us  a more concrete example of the
missing half of the energy?

Yes.  Suppose, for example, you connect a voltmeter across a
wall circuit to measure the voltage.  The meter needle moves
against a  spring with a force, as a result of the detection
made  by   the  voltmeter.    The  actual  detection  is  an
interaction  inside   the  meter's   probe   which   induces
conduction electrons  to move.   We read the needle movement
that resulted  from those conduction electrons, and we infer
so much voltage.  The important point is this: The voltmeter
is measuring  the energetics  of its own internal change; it
is not  at all measuring anything external.  All instruments
measure only  their own  internal  change.    We  infer  the
external thing  that interacted with the instrument to cause
the internal  change.  We do not measure the external entity
directly, but only the results of its interaction inside the
probe and  meter.   And  even  then,  we  measure  only  the
external, spatial-translation  energy  of  the  instrumental
interaction; we  do not  measure or account for the internal
energy of that interaction.  To state it more precisely: The
needle moved  because conduction  electrons accelerated away
from the instrument's interaction area.  This current flowed
into a  coil and  produced a  force on  the needle movement,
rotating the  needle against  a spring.   At  the same time,
another current  __ a time-reversed, phase-conjugate current
__ was  induced in  the atomic  nuclei of  the atoms  in the
interaction area.   This  "inner current"  flowed Whittaker-
wise through  the atomic nuclei of the instrument, producing
an equal  an opposite  force.   [This is  the mechanism that
produces Newton's third law in the first place, as suspected
by Feynman.]   So the entire body mass of the meter recoiled
slightly from  an equal  and opposite  force, which  we just
loosely refer  to __  and recognize  as __ Newton's reaction
force.   It's there, it's real, but we completely neglect it
in our  electrical measurements   Usually  we don't think it
had anything  to do with the external entity that interacted
with the  voltmeter.   But it  was a  product  of  the  same
interaction of  that external  "something" within the meter.
It's equal  and opposite  to what  generated our  electrical
measurement.   So exactly as much energy was produced in the
"reaction force" energetics as was produced in the "external
meter needle  force" part  of  the  interaction.    We  only
measured and  accounted for  half the  true  energy  of  the
interaction, or  else you've  got to  discard Newton's third
law.

It follows  that what  actually entered into the interaction
was a  system of oppositely paired forces __ a stress field,
which is a scalar potential.  This, of course, is consistent
with our  observation that  vacuum itself is pure potential.
As such,  it consists of partial potentials of various kinds
__ it's  highly  charged,  and  the  ambient  vacuum  scalar
potential has  very high  magnitude.    Remember  that  this
ambient vacuum  stress (potential)  can be  decomposed  into
sets of  bidirectional forces.   In our EM interaction, one-
half of  the stress  pair __  the half  that is  the  normal
photon-generated EM forcewas utilized to move the conduction
electrons, involving  primarily the  electron shells  of the
atoms imbedded  in the  vacuum potential.  The other half of
the stress-pair  interacted  with,  and  moved,  the  atomic
nucleus, causing  it to  recoil.   The recoil of the nucleus
was slight,  because it  is very, very much heavier than the
accelerated outer electron.

To sum  it up:  All detection  is actually  binary, it's not
singular at  all.   When we  detect photons  or EM waves, we
normally account  for only the externalized translation part
of the  energetics of  the interaction.   We miss or neglect
the internalized  translation part,  and we  miss or neglect
precisely  as   much  internal  energy  as  we  account  for
externally.   Again, I'm not the first one to point this out
by any means.

Question:   Can you  give us  a precise summary statement of
all this?

At the  interaction area,  a part  of the instrument and the
external causal  agent are  coupled together  as a  compound
system.   In that area, the mass of the instrument exists as
atoms, each  of which has an inner part (the nucleus) and an
outer part  (the electron shells).  In the coordinate system
centered on  that compound  system, conservation laws apply.
The compressive  stress of the interaction reacts internally
__ i.e., against the atoms with their inner and outer parts.
Reaction from  the nucleus  induces a  tensile stress.  This
tensile stress, in the simplest case, can be decomposed into
equal and  opposite forces,  since stress is merely a set of
such equal  and opposite  forces.   One of the bidirectional
interaction forces  moves externally out of the atom via the
electrons,  electromagnetically   producing   a   conduction
electron current  through the instrument and giving a needle
reading.   The second  bidirectional interaction force moves
ever  inward,   since  it   is   a   phase   conjugate   and
reconcentrates inward  ("crawfishes") rather than scattering
outward.   This forms a hidden Whittaker current through the
atomic nuclei, producing a recoil on all of them.  Precisely
as much  EM energy  went into  the inner system as went into
the outer  system.  But we normally only measure and account
for the  external energy,  and  ignore  the  energy  in  the
internal channel.

Question: Can  you give  us a reference related to this, for
example?

I'll give  you several  of them  that bear directly on this.
See R.  Chen, "Cancellation  of internal  forces,"  American
Journal of Physics, Vol. 49, No. 4, Apr. 1981, p. 372.  Chen
gives a  discussion of  these summation vectors and internal
vectors.   He points  out that  the internal forces occur in
equal and  opposite  pairs;  in  other  words,  as  internal
stresses.   That's  certainly  pointing  out  the  internal,
bidirectional force structure of a scalar stress __ a scalar
potential, if  we're talking  EM stress and EM forces.  Note
that  this   internal  pattern  is  exactly  what  Maxwell's
quaternion  theory  captured  and  retained,  and  that  the
Heaviside and  Gibbs vector  theory discards.   Further, the
quaternions captured  the internal  order of  this  internal
force vector  structure as  well.   Second, in  a  beautiful
article    Kidd     bluntly    states     that    all    our
measurement/detection is really binocular.  See Richard Kidd
et al, "Evolution of the modern photon," American Journal of
Physics, Vol.  57,  No.  1,  Jan.  1989,  p.  27-35.    E.T.
Whittaker,  of  course,  wrote  the  definitive  engineering
methodology of  how to  do all  this with EM waves __ how to
infold the EM waves into a bidirectional wave structure that
produces a  standing  wave  of  externally  force-field-free
scalar potential.   The two Whittaker papers are (1) "On the
partial differential  equations  of  mathematical  physics,"
Mathematische Annalen,  Vol. 57,  1903, p.  333-355; and (2)
"On an  expression  of  the  electromagnetic  field  due  to
electrons by means of two scalar potential functions," Proc.
Lond. Math. Soc., Series 2, Vol. 1, 1904, p. 367-372.

Now these  hidden internal  wave  structures  exist  in  all
scalar potentials,  whether they are electromagnetic or not.
For example,  Ziolkowski has  pointed out  what is  actually
Whittaker's 1903  infolded bidirectional planar waves inside
the acoustic  scalar wave,  in work  on  acoustic  missiles.
Acoustic missiles are slugs of very strong sound energy that
stay together  in a slug as they travel, and strike a target
a terrible blow, just as if it were a "missile made of sound
energy."   [See Richard  Ziolkowski, "Localized transmission
of  wave  energy,"  Proc.  SPIE  Vol.  1061,  Microwave  and
Particle Beam  Sources and  Directed  Energy  Concepts, Jan.
1989, p. 396-397.  Ed.]  A Soviet scientist, Ignatovich, has
pointed out the same remarkable bidirectional wave structure
inside the scalar potential associated with the Schroedinger
wave equation itself.  [See V.K. Ignatovich, "The remarkable
capabilities of  recursive relations,"  American Journal  of
Physics, Vol.  57, No. 10, Oct. 1989, p. 873-878.  Ed.]  And
I've pointed  out a mechanism by means of which you can make
a quantum  potential, so that separate things __ even widely
separated __  can interact as if they were all pieces of the
same system,  and all located together at the same location.
Further,  I've   pointed  out   that  you  can  deliberately
structure  that   quantum   potential   with   a   Whittaker
bidirectional wave structure.

Question:  Can you make that last part a little simpler?

What that  means is  that in  QM, there's  a special kind of
potential you can make, that can connect spatially separated
things and  translate energy between them, in hidden fashion
and essentially  instantaneously.    This  "connection at  a
distance" directly  results in  action-at-a-distance.   I've
advanced the  mechanism for  making  one  of  these  quantum
potentials, so  it is  subject to laboratory test.  Further,
in that  artificial quantum  potential you make, you can put
in a  hidden EM  wave Whittaker  structure __  hidden "pipes
inside spacetime" itself,  so  to  speak.    Then  you  have
established   hidden    EM-wave-energy   channels    through
spacetime, connecting  widely separated  entities  together.
You can  then put  energy and  specific energy  patterns  __
vacuum engines, if you will __ directly through those hidden
channels.   You can  have the  hidden  energy  emerge  at  a
distant point  and interact  in and  on a  distant  physical
system there.   This  distantly-emerging interaction  energy
can be  positive (disordering,  or scattering)  or  negative
(reordering).    Transmitting  scattering  energy,  you  get
distant heating  __ the  production  of  heat  energy  at  a
distance.   Transmitting reordering  energy, you can extract
energy from  the distant  object  or  system  through  those
hidden   channels,   accomplishing   distant   electrostatic
cooling.

The other  thing to  note is  that  EM  energy  transmission
through the  hidden channel  is not  limited to the speed of
light.   The speed  of light  refers to  energy transmission
through 3-space,  and the  internal channel refers to energy
transmission around  3-space, or  in  other  words,  through
hyperspace.  And it's testable on the laboratory bench.

Question:     Are  you   saying  that  real  energy  can  be
transmitted faster than the speed of light?

Yes.  But hyperspatially.  Not through 3-space, but "around"
it.

Again, this  means that  it's possible  to produce energetic
changes in  a distant  system at  a distant  place,  without
transmitting energy  "through space"  in the  normal  sense.
You transmit  "around" space,  so to  speak, and directly in
time or  through a  higher dimension, depending on the model
you're using  to understand this.  Further, the speed of the
internal EM  energy transmission is not limited to the speed
of light.   Whittaker already specifically pointed this out.
Quantum mechanics  also predicts  instantaneous action-at-a-
distance  and  has  essentially  proven  it  experimentally.
Finally,  you   can  specifically   Whittaker-engineer  this
"hyperspatial" transmission,  if you will, to do essentially
whatever you  wish to  do in  that distant  system.   It all
depends on  how far you develop the technology; the basis is
there.   Hypothetically, you  can eventually  even develop a
kind of  teleportation.   Whittaker transmission through the
internal channel is already "teleportation" of energy, so to
speak.

Question: Does  this have  anything to  do with  Sheldrake's
morphogenetic field?

Yes indeed.   Sheldrake's  morphogenetic field  is pure-and-
simply a  species quantum  potential,  created  amongst  the
members of  a species.    As  experiences  are  met  by  the
individual  members,   they  steadily   input  infolded   EM
structures into  the "inner"  EM channels  of  that  quantum
potential.   Since  any  infolded  EM  wave  has  its  phase
conjugate  __  or  time-reversed  replica  __  produced  and
infolded  automatically,   a  sort  of  "negative  feedback"
corrective EM  signal pattern  for all  inputs  of  the  bad
external EM  stuff exists inside the quantum potential.  One
can show  that, for  detrimental  changes  to  the  species'
members,  time   reversal  provides  infolded  signals  that
represent  an  exact  counter  to  the  "overstress  of  the
species," so to speak.  These "corrective antidotes" for the
overstressed species,  however, are  in the  virtual  state.
But as  more of the same detrimental changes are experienced
over generations,  the countering signal structures residing
in the  species quantum potential will be increased over the
same period  of time.   Gradually the hidden EM structure __
which is  like jillions  of little  "vacuum engines"  __  is
changing  and   internally  structuring   the   Schroedinger
potential for that species.

Then one day the internal corrective charge is sufficient to
breach the  quantum threshold.  One could  also say that the
spacetime potential  occupied by  the species members is now
sufficiently curved  and structured  to serve as a specific-
signal-pattern  energetic   source   for   genetic   change.
Breaching this threshold causes specific new genetic changes
to occur  in the  entire species  in a single jump.  At that
point, the actual genetics of egg fertilization (conception)
is altered,  and shortly  thereafter members  of the species
start being  born with the new change, specifically designed
to counter  or  partially  counter  the  former  detrimental
aspects in  the species  overstress.  In a dramatic example,
that's how a reptilian species can "suddenly" develop light,
air-filled bones;  feathers; and  wings,  for  example,  and
change from  a  reptile  to  a  bird  in  one  single  jump.
Sheldrake's  morphogenetic   field  is   a  species  quantum
potential and  the charged-up  Whittaker  structure  is  the
inducing agent.

Question:  You're saying, then, that living systems use this
inner, hidden  EM energy channel in addition to the external
energy  channel   that  we   know   in   ordinary   external
electromagnetics?

Absolutely.   In fact,  the  distinction  between  a  living
system and a nonliving system is precisely the fact that the
living system deterministically utilizes the inner EM energy
channels inside Whittaker-structured scalar potentials.  And
those scalar EM potentials are centered on the atomic nuclei
of atoms  comprising the  living system's  molecules, cells,
tissues, and mass.

Question:   How  does  that  relate  to  present  brain-wave
research,     and      measurements      of      brain-waves
electromagnetically?

It says  that present research is devoted almost entirely to
measuring and  pondering the  surface waves in the ocean, so
to speak.   The  mind, thoughts,  emotions, and  real living
functioning systems  are deeply  hidden, underwater waves in
that ocean.   Science  will have to instrument for detection
and recording  of the  hidden interior energetics region, or
they will  never solve  the mind/brain/body  problem.    And
without the  interior energetics, they will never understand
life, memory,  personality, thought,  and primary biological
control, or human intent.

Question:   You are  saying, then, that this hidden internal
electromagnetic energy  channel is intimately connected with
the mind, life, and personality?

Absolutely.   The  mind  consists  of  stabilized  Whittaker
structures  inside   the  living   system's   bio-potential.
Thoughts are  a  special  class  of  changes/waves  in  that
overall  Whittaker-structure   ensemble.      The   personal
unconscious is  a single  small, localized  sample of  yet a
greater   collection    that    represents    even    deeper
unconsciousness.

The conscious  mind is  a serial processor __ one thing at a
time.   The unconscious mind is totally conscious, but it is
a parallel  processor __  jillions of  things at one and the
same time.  The serial conscious mind can only make sense of
a "single  slide in the slide projector" at a time.  When it
looks at the unconscious mind, it sees a multitude of slides
in the  slide projector simultaneously __ hence it just sees
blackness, or nothing recognizable at all.

Jung's collective  unconscious,  for  example,  consists  of
archetypal infolded  EM structures  acting in  common in  an
overall bio-quantum-potential for the entire species.  Gaia,
the living earth/biosphere, really does scientifically exist
as a  common bio-quantum-potential  with infolded  living EM
structures  for  the  entire  earth  biosphere.    The  bio-
potential in  a single  body is an overall quantum potential
that links  and joins  all the  atoms and cells of the body.
The "spirit"  of the  biosystem, if you will, is its "living
biopotential" __  its living  quantum potential.  We already
know that  a potential is everywhere nonzero all the way out
to infinity.   So  the spirit  of the living system is __ in
the virtual  state __  everywhere in  the  universe  __  and
everywhen as  well.   It's all a giant hologram, not only in
space, but in spacetime.

The entire  universe is  everywhere alive,  with everything.
Note  that   if  you   simply  examine   the  "ghost  forms"
requirement  of   quantum  mechanics,   this  conclusion  is
inescapable.  All life is eternal.  Nothing is ever lost.

A  thought  or  thoughtform  is  just  a  specific,  dynamic
Whittaker  structure  in  the  hidden  EM  channels  of  the
biopotential.  Thoughts and thoughtforms are real.  They are
virtual  spatially,  but  they  occupy  one "real" spacetime
dimension, time.   Physics and metaphysics share one common,
nonobservable dimension: time.  So long as physics continues
to have  to have time, which is nonobservable a priori, then
it also  must contain  everything that  is  a  structure  or
action in  time.   Skeptics of  parapsychology, who  believe
that humans are robots and the mind is just a meat computer,
just have  little or  no foundations  knowledge.  And if you
get carried away by the "observable, objective science" bit,
remember that  the choice  of fundamental  physical units in
physics is  arbitrary.   You can  __ and  it's actually been
done __  build all  of  physics  from  time  as  the  single
fundamental unit.   That  means that you can build the whole
observable, detectable  physics model  out  of  the  totally
unobservable and  nondetectable.  Quantum mechanics long ago
destroyed materialism  for all  time,  but  it  just  hasn't
percolated through the prevailing scientific dogma yet.

With Whittaker  EM engineering,  you can  conceivably "make"
thoughtforms to order, and input them directly into the mind
and longterm  memory.   If we  view the  conscious mind as a
special  serial  computer,  we  have  now  found  where  the
software is  __ for  mind, longterm memory, and personality.
As scalar EM technology develops, we will have direct access
to the  software, so to speak, for the very first time.  And
we will be able to engineer it at will.

Question:  But is this good or bad?

Actually it's  either, or  both.  We are describing a set of
hidden  internal   EM  energy  structures,  the  fundamental
mechanism for  internal EM  structuring, and a tool.  A tool
is amoral;  it has  no morality,  and is  inherently neither
good or  bad.   The intent of the user of the tool, however,
may be  either good  or bad.  So the tool can always be used
either way,  for beneficial  purposes or  for evil purposes.
It's the  hand that  wields  the  knife  that  is  moral  or
immoral; it  is not the knife.  The same cutting tool can be
used by the surgeon to heal, or the murderer to kill.  Human
intent   differentiates    amorality   into   morality   and
immorality.

Question:   What is the biological impact of the forthcoming
new technology  that directly  accesses  and  engineers  the
internal energy regime?

It will  be both a tremendous blessing and a terrible curse.
It's the  most powerful tool ever conceived.  By engineering
the   Schroedinger    equation,   for   example,   one   can
theoretically engineer  physical change  itself.    One  can
actually engineer  physical  reality,  change  the  laws  of
nature, and  determine if  a thing  shall even  emerge  into
physical quantum  change at  all, or  if it shall change its
physical form.   Mind-wise,  eventually one  will be able to
directly  input  material  into  the  mind  __  whatever  is
desired.  Education, for example, will simply be achieved by
"loading the  proper software."  Everyone will be enormously
educated, by  today's standards.   That should for the first
time allow  the complete  alleviation of unemployment due to
lack of  employable skills,  for  example.    It  should  be
possible to  virtually eliminate  unemployment and  poverty.
Any sort of disease whatsoever __ physical or mental __ will
be rapidly curable, simply and cheaply.  It will be possible
to reverse  aging and  rejuvenate the  person.   It will  be
possible to  regrow limbs and straighten misshapen spines __
and directly  remove the  causes of mental diseases and cure
them as  well.   Lifespan will  be  staggeringly  increased,
without "old  age's debilitation."   AIDS, cancer, leukemia,
and genetic  diseases will  be completely  conquered.    The
potential for  a  true  golden  era  is  upon  us,  for  all
humanity.

On the  other hand,  it will also be possible to simply pull
out a  personality-structure from  a person,  without his or
her consent,  and insert  another.   Or  to  alter  a  given
personality structure  by just altering and re-recording the
software.   This technological  possibility, of course, will
certainly be  noticed by  would-be egomaniacs and dictators,
for it can yield the ultimate mind control.  It will also be
possible  to   provide  direct   input  inside   the   mind,
surreptitiously, from  a distance  and without the knowledge
and consent  of  the  individual  affected.    This  can  be
beneficial  if   it's  just   "instantaneous  telepathy"  __
instantaneous communications,  so  to  speak,  and  if  it's
desired by  the recipient.   It can be highly detrimental if
it is  undesirable material,  or if  it's a  forced internal
change, or enslavement, or used to overwhelm and destroy the
mind, or  used to  jam  the  body's  immune  system,  induce
virulent  diseases  en  masse,  etc.    Unless  the  present
inhumanity of one human for another is overcome, future wars
are likely  to take on aspects that stagger the imagination.
In 1975  Brezhnev called  these new mass destruction weapons
of the  future "...more  frightful than  the mind of man has
ever  imagined."    He  should  know.    When  he  made  the
statement, the Soviets had already been inducing diseases in
persons in the U.S. Embassy in Moscow for nearly 30 years.

Question:   Can you  explain that  part about direct, forced
input to the mind,  just a bit more?

Yes.   It involves  a characteristic  of the  mind and brain
that  has  been  experimentally  shown.    For  example,  if
anything   (thought,   feeling,   emotion,   image)   arises
internally  in   one  of   the  cerebral  hemispheres,  that
hemispheric personality  thinks that it did it.  That is, it
thinks that  it not  only thought  the thought,  but that it
also created  the thought.   So if you have a hidden channel
to pipe  in  inputs,  you  can  take  over  or  implant  the
thoughts, behavior,  and actions  of a person.  Or of a very
large group  of persons.   That  alone allows a mind-numbing
direct control of behavior externally and from a distance.

Question:        Can    you    really    control    behavior
electromagnetically?  Can you give us an example?

Yes, you can control  it readily  and deeply, if you develop
and utilize  the internalized  EM energy channel technology.
As to  proof, Delgado  certainly has  demonstrated  profound
control over  animal behavior  experimentally, for  all  the
world to  see, using  implanted probes and precise injection
of EM  signals.   The Soviet  LIDA machine,  using a  40 MHz
carrier and  complex waveforms  __ and  actually the  hidden
Whittaker-infolded  EM   structuring,  unknown   to  Western
technologists __  has demonstrated  the ability  to place  a
mammal __  either a human or a cat __ in a cataleptic state.
That state can be induced in a few minutes exposure and then
persists for  some minutes  after  the  stimulus  signal  is
removed.   That proves  that you  can profoundly  alter  the
mental state, electromagnetically.

Perhaps the  very  best  example  is  provided  by  the  two
cerebral hemispheres in your own head, or those in a rat, or
those in a cockroach.  As we know from split-brain research,
each hemisphere  has  a  separate  personality.    That's  a
separate being,  if you  will, to  put it bluntly.  Yet even
though you  are two beings in one body, so to speak, you are
only conscious  of one  being.   How is that, you might ask,
since both brain halves are operating?  How do you integrate
two beings  consciously into one functioning being?  Such as
is already done in your own head?

The answer  is this.  Suppose your left brain sends a signal
to your right thumb to move.  While the signal is on the way
to the  right thumb,  the left brain also sends a replica of
the signal  over the  connecting corpus  callosum, into  the
right brain half, where it emerges inside.  [When the signal
emerges inside a brain half/mind/personality, it thinks that
it itself  originated it.   That's  because it  perceives no
time  delay   between  appearance   of  the  signal  in  its
"transmission" section,  e.g., and  the  appearance  of  the
signal in  its "receiver"  section.] The ultimate definition
of identity,  after all,  is the absence of all distinction.
The absence  of functional  distinction in  time constitutes
the creation of identity in time.  The whole arises when and
only when distinction between the parts is lost.]

The right  thumb is  continually communicating  back to  the
left brain  half, telling  its progress.   Replicas of those
return signals  from the thumb are continually being sent by
the left  brain across  the corpus  callosum into  the right
brain.  The right brain thinks that it originated the thumb-
move-order, and  that  the  right  thumb  is  reporting  its
progress.   The right  brain thinks  it did  the whole thing
itself.   A similar  process occurs,  of course,  from  left
brain to  right brain.   Each  inputs to the other, at least
insofar  as   awareness  of  the  order  and  the  event  is
concerned.   Each thinks that it did it.  In that way, there
is  a   loss  of   distinction  between  the  parts  of  the
functionality.   Accordingly, there  is only  one  sense  of
being in  the bi-system,  even though there are two separate
beings.

It has  also been  shown that,  when the  corpus callosum is
severed,  the  two  brain  halves  now  function  much  more
independently.   In that  case, two  separate  personalities
really do  emerge and  function in  one body.  That also has
been shown in the laboratory.

Question:   But aren't you actually saying that the mind and
thought, then, are not really just electrical wiggles in the
brain after  all?   That they are actually separate from the
physical brain,  and the  brain is  just a  special sort  of
tuner or "workstation"?

Exactly.  The real functioning of mind, thought, memory, and
personality occurs  in the  infolded Whittaker bidirectional
EM wave structures of the overall body's scalar potential __
its bio-potential.   And  one of the great neural scientists
has already pointed out that mind and memory are not precise
functions of physical location in the brain.


Question:   Is there  any real  proof of the internal energy
channel operation  of the  mind, or  is it  just all still a
theory or hypothesis?

The basis  can be  shown, and  it  is  directly  subject  to
laboratory test,  with a  decent  laboratory  and  a  little
effort.  Let me give you a very strong datum point.

There  exists   a  rare,   completely   bafflingly   medical
phenomenon __  which has  until recently  been concealed  __
called hydrancephaly.   To  the normal materialistic Western
biologist, this  condition is astonishing, to say the least.
In hydrancephaly, a person's cranial cavity is filled almost
totally with  fluid, not  with brain  matter.   There may be
only 5%  or so  of the  brain in  there; typically  just the
small portion on the tip of the spine.  The other 95% of the
brain case  is filled with fluid.  Yet the individual may be
as normal  as you  or I.   Except, of course, that x-rays of
his head  will astonish  all the  doctors.  A few years ago,
for example, such a hydrancephalic individual graduated from
a university in Great Britain, with a degree in mathematics.
British news  actually made  a  video  documentary  on  this
subject, and particularly on that individual.

Now obviously  hydrancephaly proves rather conclusively that
it isn't  really the  brain matter or the electrical wiggles
in the  two hemispheres  that constitute  the mind.    Those
wiggles normally  are correlated  with, and communicate back
and forth  with, the internal Whittaker dynamics of the bio-
potential.   The  brain  is  a  special  communications  and
processing station,  interfacing sensors and processed stuff
from the  external world  to the Whittaker-sets, and outputs
from the  Whittaker-sets to  the body  and cells.  If just a
small functioning  part of  this "way station" remains fully
functional, the interfacing still exists.

Question:   Can you shed any light on the functioning of the
fluid  that   fills  95%   of  the   brain   cavity   of   a
hydrancephalic?

Perhaps a  little bit.   There's  an interesting thing about
fluid __  about water.   The  hydrogen bonding  structure of
water is  enormously complex  and  richly  varying.    Bond-
structuring of  water constitutes  a special  kind of  "neo-
Whittaker" substructure  inside a  special kind of potential
for that  particular body  of water.   A glass of water, for
example, has  an  overall  neo-potential  comprised  of  its
hydrogen bond  structuring.   That  water  will  change  its
internal bonding  structure if you enter the room, or if you
blink your  eye while  observing it.  It continually adjusts
to  everything   in  its   surroundings.    The  reason  is,
everything in  its environment  has charges,  and clumps  or
orderings or  structures of  potential.   And  the  internal
Whittaker structures of all those potentials overlap because
the   potentials    overlap.      Therefore   the   internal
bidirectional Whittaker EM waves intercommute.  The internal
dynamics of  the water receives inputs from the surroundings
this  way,   and  the   water's  bonding  structure  changes
accordingly.   We've only  known the complexity and richness
of this  water structuring for less than two decades, and so
far as  I know,  no one  else seems  to be  considering  the
Whittaker infolded EM wave structure aspects of it.

The point  is this:   In  the fluid  inside the  head  of  a
functional hydrancephalic,  the water  structuring is  quite
sufficient to  provide the  rest of  the needed "way-station
two-way tuner,  processor, and  transmitter-receiver."   The
reason  is  quite  simple:    The  potential  of  the  fluid
constitutes a partial potential in the overall bio-potential
of the  body.  It's like the pressure of a mixture of gases:
the overall  pressure consists  of the  partial pressures of
the  component  gases.    The  Whittaker  structures  ensure
intermingling and  intercommunication through  the  internal
energy channels  of  the  total  bio-potential  to  all  its
constituents.   Therefore the water structuring of the fluid
in the head of the hydrancephalic serves __ bridgewise __ as
a substitute brain.

Other  supporting  evidence,  of  course,  is  that  quantum
mechanics experiments  have essentially  established action-
at-a-distance  and   quantum  correlation.     The   quantum
potential, therefore, is something real and functional after
all.

And even  more evidence  is provided  by  the  nature  of  a
linear  material   versus  the   nature  of  a  nonlinear
material.   However, that would take a book, and is just too
much to  cover in  this interview.  Suffice it to say that a
strong   argument   can   be   made   from   the   nonlinear
characteristics and phenomena themselves, such as production
of  time-reversed   waves,  amplification  of  time-reversed
waves, negentropy (re-ordering of scattering energy), etc.

The bottom line is that there's certainly enough evidence to
substantially support  these hypotheses,  and move them from
the realm  of idle  speculation to  the realm of "worthy for
further experimentation  and  development."    The  ultimate
proof, of  course, will  be when one demonstrates the actual
production, recording,  and functioning  of a  living  mind.
With the  internal energy  approach, that  is hypothetically
quite possible, and will eventually be lab-demonstrated.

Question:  How is this related to the neurons, synapses, and
dendrite firings in the normal human brain?

The same  "internal electrical  structure" thing  is true of
the brain  and its  dendrite firings, EM waves, and tiny but
extremely  numerous   currents  and   fields.      Take   an
instantaneous  snapshot  of  all  the  dendrite  firings  __
billions of  them __  frozen for  an instant.    The  actual
pattern or  structure represents  the internal  state of the
brain's  bio-potential   at  that  instant.    Take  another
snapshot a  moment  later.    The  change  of  the  internal
structuring represents   the brain's internal structuring at
a new  moment.   Interfering (subtracting) the two snapshots
provides a  delta that represents the exact and total change
that occurred  in the  brain-state during that tiny interval
between snapshot  one and  snapshot two.   But since thought
itself is a change in internal brain-state, then the thought
patterns during  that interval  must be  contained in  those
changes.   And of  course a  myriad of  other brain  control
actions are  in there  as well.  Commands to beat the heart,
direct biochemistry  of cells,  etc.  To detect the internal
state precisely,  one now  needs  to  decompose  that  delta
pattern into  its Whittaker-structure  components  and  sort
them all out.

Question:   How would  one go  about detecting  the internal
state, to get at the actual thoughts themselves?

Well, one  has rather  much got  involved with  the standard
chaos problem.   You've  got  hidden  order  (the  thoughts)
buried up  in a lot of extraneous material.  In other words,
you're  looking  at  something  statistical,  and  it's  got
several kinds of hidden order hidden in there in what to you
appears to  be a  whole lot  of noise.   So you do something
very similar  to what  we described in the snapshot analogy,
but apply  Whittaker-channel detection  at  the  same  time.
Actually,  a   first  step   in  this   direction  has  been
beautifully done  by Dr.  Hunt.   She divided  the  external
brain-wave region  into several frequency bands.  (Actually,
harmonic intervals are best, per Whittaker theory.)  She set
up individual  detectors  for  all  the  frequency  channels
simultaneously.   Then she divided each of these channels in
two branches:  one branch  straight through  without a  time
delay, and  the other  delayed by a bit, say, 6 milliseconds
or so.   Then  she mixed all the delay channels onto all the
nondelay channels,  and recorded  the superposition.  And lo
and behold,  she got  beautiful traces  of hidden  chaos  in
brain wave  activity.   The traces  exhibited  the  standard
chaos attractors.   Her  magnificent  work  is  very  strong
evidence that the real activity of the mind occurs in hidden
variables,   in    hidden   channels   inside   the   normal
"envelope/external electromagnetics"  represented by  normal
brain wave  measurements.   Hunt has  shown that  there is a
hidden, deterministic,  dynamic order  "inside"  the  normal
statistical EM brain activity.

Over  two   decades  ago,  a  Russian  scientist,  Lisitsyn,
obliquely spoke  of  Russian  breakthroughs  in  this  area.
Lisitsyn stated that the Soviets had "broken the human brain
code."   He  further  stated  that  some  23  channels  were
involved, reaching  all the  way up  to optical frequencies.
However,  only   11  of   these  frequency   channels   were
independent.   He also  mentioned that  the brain coding did
not number over 44 "digits".

Now  I   interpret  his  remarks  as  indicative  of  direct
application of Whittaker theory.  Lisitsyn of course did not
give the  details; that's  highly classified  in the  Soviet
Union, as  witnessed by the Petukov/Toth incident in Moscow.
However, I  interpret Lisitsyn  as having obliquely referred
to 11  independent Whittaker  frequencies __ the fundamental
frequency and  10 harmonics  __ that  are used  by the brain
workstation to  intercommunicate between  the mind  and  the
external electrical/physical functioning of the organism.  I
interpret the  remark about  44 digits to probably mean that
there are  some 44  different independent Whittaker spectrum
sets, where each spectrum consists of the fundamental and 10
harmonics.   And in  each frequency  channel of a set, there
are two  bidirectional EM  waves __ actually, an EM wave and
its time-reversed antiwave (phase conjugate replica).

Question:  Can you tell us something more about detection of
standing scalar EM potential waves?

For fundamental  detection of  the  scalar  wave,  you  must
realize that  several kinds  of detectors  can be  utilized.
One kind  is  a  spatially-oriented  detector,  and  detects
spatial aspects  and changes  of the  scalar  wave  and  its
internal substructure.  The other kind detects variations in
the local  rate of  flow of  time, and  then the "finer time
wave structure"  of that  variation.   With either type, the
problem has  two parts.   Let's look first at the spatially-
oriented detector.

First, one  must detect  the absolute potential at the point
of intersection.   Second,  in this  detected potential, one
must detect  its internal,  infolded EM  bidirectional  wave
structure  __   in  short,  its  Whittaker  structure.    An
additional requirement,  of course,  is that  the instrument
must be  shielded against the effects of spurious EM signals
in the  area.  In short, it must be in a Faraday cage.  Even
more than  that, one  must be  able to  vary  the  grounding
potential on the shielding cage.  One must be able to let it
float, have  it at  ambient, or  move it  to  some  specific
value.

A Geiger  tube, for  example, will  usually detect  a strong
absolute potential.   That  is, the  potential increases the
charge on the atoms or molecules of the gas it contains, and
at the  ionization point,  the gas  starts to  ionize.   The
counter, of  course, then  counts the  ion discharges, whose
rate is  correlated to the level of ionization, and hence to
the strength  of the ionizing agent.  Note that Geiger tubes
do not  necessarily detect  nuclear radiation;  they  detect
ionizing radiation,  regardless of  the type.  While nuclear
radiation is  certainly ionizing  radiation,  so  is  strong
scalar radiation.  Even though the scalar wave is a standing
wave, its increased level of potential can ionize the gas in
the tube.   Of course, if the standing scalar potential wave
is a  sine wave  function of  the radial  distance from  the
source, and  the Geiger  counter is at the node, it will not
read because  there  is  no  difference  there  from  normal
ambient vacuum potential.

Note also  that the  so-called "microwave  radiation" of the
U.S. Embassy  in  Moscow  was  detected  originally  with  a
nuclear radiation  detector __  probably a  Geiger  counter.
Pure  microwaves   are  non-ionizing,  and  would  not  have
activated the  counter.  Shortly I will have a new book out,
Gravitobiology:  A   New  Biophysics,   which  will  explain
precisely how  the health  changes in  the Moscow  radiation
were induced in U.S. Embassy personnel.  In the book we will
also  explain  Kaznacheyev's  "death  photons"  and  the  EM
induction of  disease at a distance.  We'll also explain the
mechanism for  producing  an  EM  antidote  signal  for  any
disease, known or unknown.

The problem  with the  Geiger counter as detector is that it
only accomplishes  half the  job, even  when it  works.   It
doesn't break out and measure the Whittaker bidirectional EM
wave structure of the ionizing potential at all.

Here is  a possible  scheme for  a better  detecting system.
Use two  detecting probes, some small distance apart, inside
the  shield.    At  each  probe  point,  use  a  high  input
resistance, very  low  voltage  detector  __  microvolts  or
picovolts range, normally.  The signals should then be mixed
and another  difference frequency  detector of  similar kind
utilized.   Under  proper  circumstances,  this  produces  a
normal EM  beat frequency  (via the  Aharonov-Bohm  effect).
The second  stage of  the detector  can then come into play.
The  beat  frequency  is  input  into  a  standard  spectrum
analyzer,  which   should  detect   the  components  of  the
Whittaker spectrum  as modulations on the detected Aharonov-
Bohm effect beat frequency.

The disadvantages  of this  detector are two-fold.  One, the
actual ground  potential at  which  the  shield  is  biased,
affects whether  or not  you get  a detection.  Second, it's
basically  a   very  short  wavelength  detector  for,  say,
millimeter waves  to waves  in the  one meter  band.    That
should be  good enough  for scalar  communications research,
however, and  the Soviets  have reported  highly significant
biological  effects  of  the  Lisitsyn  kind  at  about  2.1
millimeter wavelengths.

For longer wavelengths, one has to either have rather widely
separated instruments  operating  in  a  bistatic  reception
mode, for  the scalar  interferometry, or  else  use  delay-
materials and  schemes in  probes.   Another way that can be
worked  out   is  to   use  a  characteristic  of  nonlinear
materials.  If a sine wave is input to a nonlinear material,
harmonics are  produced.   By  tailoring  and  choosing  the
materials, one  should get appreciable frequency shifting up
the scale via harmonic production.

Another way  is to  realize that a standing scalar potential
wave can  also be  considered as a standing wave in the rate
of passage  of time.   So the presence of a scalar potential
alters the  local rate of time passage.  But since it alters
time flow, it affects everything else that locally exists in
time __  and that's  everything.   More exactly,  there is a
stress effect  on the  rate of  flow of time.  And there are
certain detectable  functions that  occur in  detectors  and
solid state  components, for  example, that occur because of
the time  stream stress changes.  I cannot be more specific,
because the  effects I  know about  here were  discovered by
John Schnurer  and are  proprietary to  him.   But John  can
build a  detector based  on this  effect, at  least for  the
overall potential.   It  remains to develop detection of the
EM substructure  and its  spectrum, and  he will have a very
good scalar EM system detector.

Other things  very useful  in developing detectors have been
reported by  Hunt,  Bedini,  Beck,  Howonadec,  Golden,  and
others.     Golden  particularly  has  a  very  good  scalar
communications   detector,    and   several    good   scalar
communications transmitters.   One  of his  typical detector
systems, for  example, will  perform between  20 and  30  dB
better for  a given  power transmitted  than will  a  normal
communication system  with high  gain antennas.   And, since
the detection of scalar involves outfolding the inner energy
spectrum of  the Whittaker  structure,  a  direction  finder
cannot get a direction fix on the signal transmitted via the
scalar system.

Beck has  certainly demonstrated an extremely sensitive coil
of ultrafine  wire, that  can often  outperform  the  finest
superconductive quantum  interference detector (SQUID).  The
use of  extremely fine  wire __ and lots of overlaying coils
__ drastically  reduces or  blocks the  radial  movement  of
electrons in  any one  point in the wire in the coil.  Since
that's the  way  electron  current  actually  moves  __  the
movement down  the  wire  is  due  to  drift  velocity,  and
certainly is  not the  signal  __  Beck's  coil  effectively
prevents most  of the  "external electron bleedoff" from the
stabilized scalar  potential.   Thus he's able to block most
of the  external electromagnetics,  and thereby  retain  the
inner part  as well.   Precisely,  his  coil  is  now  using
gravitons, not  photons, to  a significant  degree.   So the
coil as  the interaction  area of  an instrument  is able to
hold and  pass some  of  the  internalized  EM  energy  that
normally escapes  into and through the nucleus only.  At the
output  of  the  coil,  Beck  gets  EM  from  this  internal
component that  the SQUID  doesn't see because it doesn't do
the escape-blocking in its interaction area.

There  are  other  detector  schemes,  of  course,  such  as
holographic interferometry, but this should give you an idea
of some  of the  things that have to be done to perform good
laboratory measurement of scalar electromagnetics.

Question:   Could you  return to  your discussion  of what's
wrong with  present electromagnetics, quantum mechanics, and
general relativity?   Perhaps  you  could  address  them  in
order.

Okay.   I've already  stated the  case for electromagnetics.
Half of  it __  the really  interesting part,  the  internal
energetics __  was discarded  by Heaviside  and Gibbs.    By
discarding the  scalar component  of  the  quaternion,  they
threw out  the internalized EM energy of local spacetime and
its communication  with distant  spatial points.   Since the
localized  energy   density  of   spacetime  is  essentially
synonymous with  gravitational potential, they threw out the
ability to  turn EM  force field  energy into  gravitational
potential energy.    They  threw  out  the  interaction  and
entanglement of  EM and  gravitation, and  wrote the special
subset of  Maxwell's theory  that is  restricted to the case
where gravity  and electromagnetics  do not  interact.  As a
subset, their work is perfectly okay.  However, a priori you
will never  use their approach __ nor the applied technology
that    follows     its    principles    __    to    produce
electrogravitation, over-unity  machines, tapping  of vacuum
energy sources, etc.  You will never electrically change the
inertia of  a body  at  rest,  structure  the  electric  and
magnetic flux  itself, or  achieve and  utilize action  at a
distance.  And your instruments developed in accord with the
Heaviside/Gibbs EM  principles will  never detect or measure
the mind,  thought, and  emotion __  for those instruments a
priori discard  and ignore  the internal  energy arena where
mind, thought,  and emotion  reside and function.  And since
the externalized EM energy is scattering energy, energy once
scattered will  produce entropy  __ increased  disorder, and
only the  positive flow  of time.    And  that  science  and
technology will never be able to translate EM energy into G-
energy and  vice  versa.    Every  system  built  under  its
principles will  be at  extreme best  a "break-even" system.
It will  never produce more energy out than is input in.  It
is at best a diode engineering technology.

Question:  What about present quantum mechanics?

Quantum mechanics  has a  severe  foundations  problem:  the
missing chaos, or in other words, the problem of the missing
hidden order.   Let  me explain  how that  came about.  When
physicists were  constructing quantum  mechanics, it  was of
necessity a  statistical theory.   They  simply  lifted  the
Gibbs thermodynamics  statistics, and  utilized  it  as  the
quantum statistics.  Furthermore, Gibbs statistics was based
on the theory of the random variable; that is, the variables
were  considered   random.    So,  because  random  variable
statistics were  utilized, the  QM postulate  that  "quantum
change is  statistical" was  over-restricted to  the special
case of "quantum change not only is statistical, but also is
random."   The second  case, "quantum change is statistical,
but can  contain hidden  order and  be nonrandom,"  was thus
excluded  a   priori,  simply   because  of  the  statistics
utilized.   Now  the  random  change  hypothesis  is  easily
falsified, as  follows:   If you  collect large  numbers  of
random change,  the resulting  collection is  still  random.
The next  collection will  not necessarily  produce the same
collection at all.  (In fact, if it does, then this is prima
facie evidence that the variables are not all random.)

What this  means is  that, if quantum change is random, then
collections  of   these  random  tiny  changes  could  never
integrate to  provide us the ordered macroscopic universe we
live in and observe.  You couldn't have a flower, or a tree,
or anything,  for that  matter  __  just  total  randomness.
Obviously that  is not  true, or else you and I do not exist
and this macroworld does not exist.

For integration  of the statistical quantum changes to yield
an ordered macroscopic universe, quantum change must contain
hidden order.   That  is, the variables must be chaotic, not
random.   If the  changes are  chaotic, then  integration of
them will  see large  scale forms  emerge and  stabilize  __
which is what we actually observe in physical reality.

So ironically,  the biggest  foundations problem  in quantum
mechanics today is the problem of the missing chaos!  Try as
they will, quantum physicists cannot find the missing hidden
order, because  they continue  to use  the Gibbs  statistics
that already  excludes it.  So they now know that somehow QM
is wrong, and many of them fear that this most successful of
physics theories will have to be completely redone.

David Bohm,  of course,  long ago  pointed out  that  hidden
variables could  contain the  hidden order.  Actually all of
experimental physics  is consistent with his hidden variable
theory (HVT).   Mainline  QM  theoreticians,  however,  shun
hidden variables  (and therefore  hidden order).  They avoid
hidden variable  theory by applying a kind of Occam's razor:
They  say   that  Bohm's   HVT  seemingly  predicts  no  new
phenomena, so  why  adopt  it  at  all,  or  even  seriously
investigate it?  And since Bohm did not know how to actually
engineer  his  hidden  variables,  nothing  could  be  found
experimentally with  it that  could not also be explained by
the present QM.

Now this is where Whittaker's work __ and Maxwell's original
quaternion theory  of EM  __ saves  the day  and  decisively
decides the  issue.   Whittaker's hidden  variable theory is
directly engineerable  on the lab bench.  It's testable, and
when applied to quantum mechanics, it predicts hordes of new
phenomena and  effects, so  it certainly  gets  by  the  old
"Occam's razor" saw.  When you apply Whittaker's approach to
QM, again  you provide  testable internal  EM  bidirectional
wave structures  to  the  scalar  potential,  including  the
Schroedinger potential.    Whittaker's  work  allows  direct
engineering  of   quantum  change  itself,  and  constitutes
testable hidden  order inside  the "Gibbs  statistics."   In
other  words,  application  of  the  Whittaker  work  to  QM
produces a  superset of  QM,  where  the  missing  chaos  is
restored.

The postulate  that "quantum  change is statistical" now has
three special  cases, theoretically:  (1) the  case where no
internal order is present, and quantum change is random; (2)
the case  where some  internal  order,  but  not  total,  is
present, and  quantum change is already chaotic; and (3) the
case where  quantum change is perfectly engineered and hence
perfectly ordered and deterministic.

Notice that, by adding the hidden order and the internalized
EM energy,  we've now  extended both  QM and EM, and unified
the two on a common subset: each's Whittaker-applied subset,
which is the same subset shared by the two.

Question:  So how about general relativity?  How does it fit
in?

A similar thing also happened to general relativity, believe
it  or   not!     Einstein  unwittingly  restricted  general
relativity to  a subset  of the theory he intended to write.
This over-restriction  was again  an indirect  result of the
fundamental Heaviside/Gibbs error in electromagnetics.

Unfortunately,   Einstein's    view   of    electromagnetics
approximated the classical view.  In classical EM theory, EM
and gravitation  were mutually  exclusive.    That  is,  the
strong EM  force  was  not  usable  as  an  agent  to  curve
spacetime.

Therefore, as  a curvature  agent, Einstein  only considered
the weak  gravitational force due to the attraction of mass.
Now the  G-force is  far, far  weaker than the E-force.  For
two electrons,  for example,  the attractive G-force between
them is on the order of only 10exp-42 times as strong as the
electrical repulsion.   The  G-force is very, very weak!  If
only the  weak G-force  is considered for curving spacetime,
then there  will never be an observable spacetime curvature,
except in  the immediate  vicinity of  a very  large mass __
such as on the surface of the sun or a star.

Einstein   reasoned    that   the    laboratory,   and   the
observer/scientist and  instrument, would  never be  on  the
surface of  the sun  or of  a star.  Therefore, he reasoned,
the local spacetime -- where the  lab, the observer, and the
 instruments  are  --  would  never  be  curved.  The local 
spacetime would always be flat.

Unfortunately, Einstein  then made  a fundamental error.  He
overgeneralized his  thought examination.   He stated one of
his fundamental  postulates of  general relativity  as  "The
local  spacetime   is  always   flat."     This  is   overly
restrictive, and  did not  follow from  his thought process.
His postulate  can be  more accurately  stated  as  follows:
"The local  spacetime is always flat, whenever only the weak
gravitational force  is used  for the agent of curvature and
the local  region of interest is not near a large collection
of mass."

Notice  the   difference  in   the  two  statements  of  the
postulate.   Einstein's overstatement does not allow the far
stronger EM  force to be used for curvature.  In effect, his
own overstatement  excluded electromagnetics  from curvature
unity  with  gravitation,  in  his  own  general  relativity
theory.   Ironically Einstein then tried for the rest of his
life  to   fit  electromagnetics  back  in  there  __  never
realizing that  his own  too-strenuous statement of the flat
local spacetime postulate doomed all his efforts to failure.

On the  other hand, the corrected statement of his postulate
admits the  following corollary:   "When a very strong force
such as  the electromagnetic  force is used for the agent of
curvature, the  local spacetime  may be  curved, even though
the local  region of interest is not near a large collection
of mass."

As can  be seen, Einstein unwittingly wrote only a subset of
his intended  theory.  Correct restatement of his overstated
postulate of uncurved spacetime dramatically extends general
relativity, and unites it with electromagnetics in a unified
field theory.

Einstein's  error   also  excluded   the   present   general
relativity  from   ever  being   a  laboratory  experimental
science.   If no detectable spacetime curvature is available
locally, it  obviously can't  be measured  in the  lab.  The
vanishingly small local curvature waves following from mass-
attraction gravitation  are still  predicted to  be  several
orders  of   magnitude  below  the  ability  of  the  finest
available detector.  And that detector is a huge, monstrous,
very costly  thing.   A  priori,  if  the  observer's  local
spacetime is  always flat,  there is  no local experiment or
local apparatus  that involves  or  yields  a  curved  local
spacetime!

Unfortunately,  Einstein's   modern  followers  have  raised
Einsteinian general  relativity to a dogma.  They ruthlessly
uphold  the   overstatement  of  the  flat  local  spacetime
postulate.   Physicists who  would dispute it __ and quite a
few would  do so  __ are  essentially barred  from obtaining
funding.     If  they   persist  with  their  heresy,  their
scientific stature  is lost, and they are ostracized and cut
off economically.   Simply read Santilli's book, if you wish
a  clear   inside  picture.    Contrary  to  the  scientific
propaganda, orthodox  science is  ruthless in  defending its
doctrine against all would-be heretics.  Much of science has
been converted  to a  religion, instead  of a  science.  Any
person knowledgeable of scientific history can cite numerous
examples of scientific suppression, character assassination,
and essentially  banishment.   Gauss's  nonlinear  geometry,
Wegener's  continental   drift,  Mayer's  discovery  of  the
conservation    of     energy,     Ovshinsky's     amorphous
semiconductors, physical  therapy, the EKG, and the clinical
use of  hypnosis come  readily to  mind.   Scientists form a
distribution, just  like any  other group.  Some of them are
saints.   Some of  them are  devils.   The broad majority is
neither, but is made up of just ordinary people like you and
me, doing  a specialized  job.   Every scientific  model  is
known to be falsifiable and imperfect in the first place, if
you believe  Godel's theorem.   Scientific  method does  not
yield total  truth anyway,  by its own assertion; at best it
yields a  partial truth.    By  the  Heisenberg  uncertainty
principle, every  measurement distorts the entity with which
the instrument  interacts, changing what actually appears to
be measured.   Real  scientists know  that scientific models
are progressive.   For  any model,  sooner or later a better
one, an improvement, will be found.

At any  rate, when one looks at Maxwell's quaternion theory,
the scalar  component captured  the ability  to  enfold  and
utilize the  strong electromagnetic  force to make a trapped
potential filled  with a  structure  of  dynamic  EM  vector
energy.   However, if  the  translation  components  of  the
quaternion were zeroed, the system of trapped spatiotemporal
energy did  not translate  spatially, but  only  temporally.
That, of  course,  is  a  scalar  EM  potential  without  an
external force-field  gradient.   Since it is really trapped
energy that  gravitationally attracts  other trapped energy,
then all  potentials are  gravitational __ as is well-known.

In fact,  in 1968  Sakharov pointed  out that  gravitational
field is  not actually  a primary field of nature.  Instead,
it's always  a conglomerate  produced from other fields.  If
his hypothesis  is true,  then to  the first  order  gravity
should be  composed  of  electromagnetics,  since  it's  the
strongest force we normally will be able to meet or utilize.

Maxwell's quaternions  and Whittaker's  profound two  papers
directly show that.  They also show how to engineer all this
on the  laboratory  bench.    So  the  Whittaker  scalar  EM
approach is  testable, which  meets the  major criterion for
the difference  between a  hypothesis and  a  theory.    Any
decent university  physics and/or electromagnetics staff who
put their minds to it can test the approach.

Question:   Are there other physicists or scientists to whom
we should also give credit for these things?

Yes.   I'd like  to mention that Nikola Tesla experimentally
discovered the  standing scalar  EM potential  wave  on  the
night of July 3-4, 1899, in his Colorado Springs laboratory.
He found  it being  radiated from  a traveling thunderstorm.
He recognized  it as  an "electromagnetic sound wave".  This
was four years before, unknown to the world, Whittaker wrote
and   published   the   precise   theory   for   that   same
electrogravitational wave.  Tesla always stated that, in the
remarkable systems  he later  referred to,  he was not using
Hertzian waves.   Rather,  he pointed  out, he  was using EM
sound waves  __ which must be modeled longitudinally.  Today
we know  Tesla was  correct __  and all  his detractors were
wrong.

I'd also  like to  point out the patents and work of Hooper.
Hooper seems  to be the only physicist who ever methodically
investigated EM stresses, structuring of those stresses, and
the gravitational  implications of  those  stresses  in  the
laboratory.

I'd like  to also  point out Sakharov, and honor him for his
clear statement  that gravitation  is not  primary, but is a
conglomerated field made from other fields.  One should also
point  out   the  explosive   progress  made  in  stochastic
electrodynamics as a result of Sakharov's suggestion, by Hal
Puthoff  and  others.    And  one  should  definitely  honor
scientists such  as Peter  Graneau, who  have  struggled  to
point out  the foundations  problems of electromagnetics and
experimentally back up their findings.

And finally I'd like to mention that I've been privileged to
work with  some extraordinary  inventors.   In deference  to
their requests,  I will  not give  a straightforward list of
them at  this time.   But  a great deal of any insight I may
have gained  is in large part due to painstaking, maddening,
persistent experiments  they have done in the thousands.  We
will have  more to  say __  and powerfully  __  about  their
actual contributions  at a  later date, hopefully later this
year.   Lots of other brilliant inventors __ Moray and Sweet
come readily  to mind  __ have  also struggled in this field
and produced astonishing and unrewarded results.


Question:  Can you spell out again what effect excluding the
internal EM  energy had  on physics,  as simply as possible,
and how that is related to vectors?

The thing  that casting  out the internal order and internal
structure  of   the  local   ST  does,   is  to  remove  any
consideration of  hidden, deterministic variables that could
be manipulated to create and control quantum change itself.

As  can   be  seen,  then,  in  the  physical  world  scalar
quantities are  very often really zero vector systems, where
the "scalar"  or motionless  system is  actually filled with
hosts of smaller "vector" things in violent motion.  We have
to be  very careful,  therefore, when  we apply  mathematics
(which does  not decompose fundamental scalars into vectors,
or identify  them as  vector zeros) to a physical situation.
To use  an extreme  example, two  elephants pushing strongly
head-on against  each other  may  produce  a  "two-elephant"
system of  opposing forces  (vectors), where  the system  is
stationary.   The system  is thus  a zero  resultant  vector
system, whose  motion is  represented by a vector zero.  The
same would  be true for two fleas pushing against each other
and not  moving as  a system;  the system  would be  a  zero
resultant vector  system, whose  motion is  represented by a
vector zero.

And here's  where the  mathematics betrays  us, if  accepted
unquestioningly.   In vector  analysis, all vector zeros are
identical.  Here we  are saying that the translatory motions
of the  flea system  and the  elephant system  are the same.
That's true,  but there's  a whale of a lot of difference in
the two  systems that  must be accounted for physically!  If
you don't  believe that,  put yourself  in between  the  two
pushing elephants,  and see  if that's  the  same  as  being
between the  two pushing  fleas!   You'll certainly notice a
lot more  stress on  you from  the elephants  than from  the
fleas.

That illustrates a fundamental problem with vector analysis.
In the  concepts of the math itself, one conceives a "vector
space" as  a sort  of "place  where one  can  put  vectors."
Further, no  matter how many vectors we put in there, or how
they interact,  the vector  space itself  is never under any
stress.  In other words, in that space, elephant-pushing and
flea-pushing are  identically the  same.    And  that's  the
problem.   When  vector  analysis  is  applied  to  physical
situations,  imbedded   inside  the  mathematics  of  vector
analysis itself  is the absolute discarding of the stress of
local space  or spacetime, resulting from the interaction of
vectors   representing    interacting   motional    physical
quantities.

Now in  quaternions, that is not the case.  Quaternions that
interact  capture  this  "local  stress  of  spacetime"  and
"locally  trapped   energy  of   spacetime"  in  the  scalar
component,  inside   it.     When  the   motional  parts  of
interacting   quaternions    produce   a    motionless    or
translationless state for the interacting parts as a system,
the stress,  energy, and  exact geometric  patterning of the
interactants that  are now  locally trapped  in spacetime is
gathered in  and accounted  for.  The motional aspect may go
to zero,  but  the  scalar  aspect  will  capture  not  only
magnitude  but   internal  motion   and  the  exact  dynamic
structure of that internal motion.

Quaternions already  incorporate a beautiful hidden variable
theory,  analogous   to  Bohm's   beautiful  work.      They
incorporate two channels: the external energy channel (which
is addressed,  for example,  by classical Heaviside/Gibbs EM
theory), and also a hidden internal energy channel (which is
not  addressed   by  Heaviside/Gibbs).     Quaternions  also
incorporate  hyperspatial   aspects,  since   they  are   an
extension to  complex number  theory.  Notice that Heaviside
had to  stick back  in complex  numbers, to  get his spatial
vectors  to   unite  magnetism   and  electricity.    So  he
essentially added one extra dimension, typified by the first
hypernumber, the  square root  of minus  one.    Quaternions
already had  that in  there, and  a lot  more that Heaviside
threw out.

Question:     Would  you  sum  up  how  general  relativity,
electromagnetics, and  quantum mechanics  are unified by the
Whittaker approach?

Yes.   Applying Whittaker's  work to  each of  the three,  a
superset of  it is  produced.   The  new  superset  has  two
subsets: the present discipline and the extension containing
internal EM  energy and  hidden variable  theory.  Since all
three extensions are actually the same thing, then all three
supersets superpose  on the  common extension  set.  Each of
the present  three disciplines  is revealed  to be a special
case, which  unfortunately omitted  the  unifying  extension
set.   It's like a topless cardboard box that you've cut the
bottom out  and outfolded  the  sides  separately.    To  be
joined, those  separate sides  need the  bottom of  the box.
Whittaker provides the bottom.  And it's testable.

Question:   Are there  any other fundamental things from all
this  that  you'd  like  to  point  out,  that  you  haven't
mentioned, that follow from the eventual development of this
new physics?

Several.   Please  notice  that  Whittaker's  work  and  the
characteristics  of   Maxwell's  scalar   component  of  the
quaternion allow  the direct  electromagnetic engineering of
the vacuum.   In  fact, they  allow the actually structuring
and variation of massless electric charge flux itself.  Now,
in the  new approach,   one  electron can be quite different
from another, because its electric charge flux can be varied
and patterned.   Not  only can its overall electrical charge
be varied,  but its  charge can  be dynamically  structured.
Now the  charge of an electron or other fundamental particle
can vary,  and the  charge flux  of a  single particle (or a
group) can be spatially structured __ or activated.

The activation concept, for example, allows an immediate and
testable explanation  of the  mechanism by  means  of  which
homeopathy  works.     Recall   what  I   said  about  water
structuring and  hydrancephaly.   A chemical  compound has a
deterministic infolded  EM Whittaker structure.  If you make
a solution  of the compound, you change this hidden internal
energy structure  of the  fluid.  If you then get rid of the
physical carrier __ the mass of the original compound __ and
just leave the inner energy structure for that compound, you
have homeopathy.   Chemistry  is totally  due to  charge and
charge distribution.   In  homeopathy you're  retaining  the
charge template  in the  potential, and that affects charges
in the  treated body  just like  the actual  medication.  In
fact better,  because you  now do  not  have  the  "physical
residue" to  worry with,  but do things directly.  These new
concepts are  profound  and  controversial  changes  to  the
present foundations assumptions of physics and biology.

In the  new approach,  you can't  just  automatically  apply
random variable  statistics.   You have  to apply chaos.  In
structuring the  vacuum's virtual  photon exchange  with the
mass of  a charged  particle, we  have moved to a completely
new and much more fundamental level of engineering.  Now the
massless virtual  particle charge flux can be activated with
a particular  dynamic structure  __ a  vacuum engine, if you
will __  to perform  a special  job.   Or we  can activate a
local  spacetime   itself,   curving   it   and   internally
structuring that curvature to our will.  That locally curved
spacetime then becomes a continuing, inexhaustible source of
a specialized  vacuum engine  or engines.  We can tailor the
local vacuum  so as to be able to violate any and all of the
present conservation  laws, not just two out of three as the
present CPT  theorem permits.   Literally  we  can  use  the
vacuum's  incredibly  powerful  flux  to  produce  localized
vacuum engines.   We  can reach  directly  into  the  atomic
nuclei with  magic, gentle,  accurately controlled  fingers.

We can  for the  first time begin to do actual tailoring and
engineering of  the nucleus itself.  We can further directly
collect and  integrate virtual  state energy forms, which in
QM are called "ghost forms."  Literally, eventually anything
at  all  can  be  materialized  and  brought  into  physical
reality, or  dematerialized so as to disappear from physical
reality.   And we  shall be  able to engineer and change the
local laws  of nature,  since we  can directly  engineer and
control the  Schroedinger equation,  the quantum potentials,
and the  entire local  vacuum potential  in all  its partial
potential parts.

Whether we're  ready or not, God has now seen fit to hand to
humankind the  ability to  engineer its own physical reality
and its  own destiny.   We  can make  of the  new engineered
reality a  heaven or  a hell.  Whichever we do, we will reap
the benefits  or face  the consequences.  It would indeed be
wonderful if,  for the  first time,  we could  develop  this
powerful new tool to save humankind rather than destroy it.

********end of interview**************
