Sailing in Greece and Turkey with SeaScape - cruises for singles and couples in the Greek islands and the Turkish Aegean coast. 

 You don&rsquo;t have to get a full crew together to sail with us - come on your own, bring a friend/partner and join the fun! 

 Dates and Rates 

 What's included on our trips 

 &#160; It can be hard enough getting a group of friends to agree on a date for dinner - let alone plan a vacation together!

 And sometimes it&rsquo;s good to get away totally - new places, new faces. Joining a sailboat is a perfect way to do this - it&rsquo;s a very informal, free n&rsquo; easy sort of atmosphere where the usual social "barriers" disappear very quickly, where within just a couple of days, you feel like you&rsquo;ve known your crewmates for weeks! 

 "But who knows what kind of weirdos we might end up sailing with?" . . . is a concern about "shareboating" that a number of people have voiced. A very valid one too - 50&rsquo; or so might be big in sailboat terms, but it&rsquo;s a real small space if you don&rsquo;t get on with your crewmates! 

 Well, we&rsquo;re as concerned about that as you are,&rsquo;cos we&rsquo;re "in the same boat" as you - literally ! That&rsquo;s one of the things that makes us at SeaScape unique; we&rsquo;re out there ourselves, living on board and sailing with our guests... We know exactly how important group dynamics are; and we do our matchmaking best to put groups together with similar vacation goals and ideas. Eg, we wouldn&rsquo;t put a bunch of young singles out to party all night on the same boat as, say, couples who are mostly looking for some quiet romantic times! 

 You can join in with the group as much as you like - or go off on your own whenever you please. We typically spend around 3 hrs a day actually on the water sailing, so there&rsquo;s lots of time to go explore the islands. There&rsquo;s a bunch of other people around if you want company - but also plenty of space if you want time alone. 

 Besides our own active efforts to match up crews, there also seems to be a very effective self-selection process that goes on with our groups. By their very nature, vacations like this tend to attract adventurous, gregarious and open-minded people, who revel in the chance to escape the usual tourist track, the opportunity to get to know the locals, and the chance to learn new skills. 

 This is one of the reasons why you&rsquo;re now wading through these very extensive web notes! . . . we want to make quite sure that no-one has any misconceptions that we&rsquo;re some kind of "Get me a cocktail, waiter!" cruise ship. Everyone pitches in (yes, that includes washing the dishes !), everyone has a say in what we do, where we go. 

 As one previous participant described it - it's like "camping on the water". Very up-market camping to be sure, but if this sort of concept appeals to you - hey, come join us, you&rsquo;ll have a ball ! The cool thing is that everyone else on board will have gone through the same process... they too will think that "camping on the water" sounds like fun, they&rsquo;ll also like the casual, get-involved, easy-going, off-the-beaten-track approach - else they wouldn&rsquo;t be there. The net result of all this has been some wonderfully FUN groups - and friendships made that have lasted years beyond tying the final dock lines at the end of the trip.