Adventure Sailing with SeaScape - sail on our yachts in Greece, Turkey, Thailand, Tonga. Yacht charters in the Greek islands, the Aegean, Turkey. Sail adventures worldwide, singles sailing, couples & private yacht charters for groups. Sailing in Greece and Turkey. 

 &#160; 
 The Med might provide some exciting sailing weather at times - but we're not exactly crossing any oceans!

 The "Adventure" tag applies not only to the fun, freedom and excitement of being out on the ocean on your own yacht, but also to the SeaScape get-involved approach, where everyone is part of a real "crew" - not just passengers to be ferried about according to some strict itinerary, or the whim of the captain. 

 There's no obligation to pull on ropes if you don't want to - but if you'd like to learn more about sailing, we'd love to teach you. For already experienced sailors - hey, great ! - come take the helm and tweak the sails as much as you like ! Though we have provisional itineraries, they are always changeable according to the preferences of the group - and of course, the whims of the wind gods ! Our trips are as flexible and laid-back as possible; as fun and hedonistic as the islands themselves. 

 "Adventure" also applies to the sort of places we sail. To some of the more well-known spots, sure - but we also venture way beyond the usual tourist tracks; we explore the isolated islands & villages only accessible by sailboat - or maybe bribing a local fisherman ! These are the islands you'll never find in any travel agents' window... some of the few remaining unspoiled pockets where traditional Greek culture and hospititality are still very much alive. 

 What's more, we've been sailing these waters for 9yrs now - and are pretty much part of the family in these little islands. So our SeaScape sailors always get a real warm welcome whenever our yachts sail into port ! 

 So - this is no cruise ship - it's a real sailing experience! We won't make your beds or clean up your junk - although we may well serve up the gin n' tonics as you swing in a hammock! We will however, teach you to sail if you wish; take you Greek dancing where the locals go, introduce you to the delights of Turkish baths - and sail you to some of the most beautiful and unspoiled spots still remaining in these waters....