Review of High Sierra and I Died A Thousand Times 

 Review of High Sierra (1941) and I Died A Thousand Times
(1955) 

High Sierra: 

I Died A Thousand Times

 Sharp-eyed readers will notice they're getting two reviews for the
price of this one. That's because the rather bizarrely-titled I Died a
Thousand Times is a remake of High Sierra .
Though High Sierra is more famous and features
noir icon Humphrey Bogart, I Died a Thousand Times , with Jack
Palance and Shelley Winters and directed by the less well-known Stuart
Heisler, is the better film. 

 The story in both films is very much the same, with a few but
significant changes in the remake. Bank robber Roy Earle is sprung from
prison by ailing gangster Big Mac to commit one last job--robbing a hotel
safe at a wealthy resort town. Roy's attention is divided between keeping
in line his squabbling co-conspirators, Red, Babe and Marie, and wooing
the young clubfooted Velma, granddaughter of an elderly couple Roy met
while travelling to the gang's secluded cabin in the Sierra Nevadas. Marie
in turn is attracted to Roy. Only Pard the stray dog offers Roy
uncomplicated friendship. 

 Despite tough guy Bogart's presence, High
Sierra is neither a good noir nor a good film. Director Raoul Walsh's
skillful when it comes to handling sequences with cars, including one
suspenseful near-accident and a spectacular car chase scene near the end.
But the overall atmosphere of joviality he creates in High Sierra fits badly with the dark qualities of
the script. Yes, the script has elements of comic relief involving Pard
the dog and the cabin caretaker (African-American in High Sierra , Mexican-American in I Died a
Thousand Times ; a demeaning stereotype in both), but its main
characters are criminals. And a more cheerful and dignified pack of
hard-bitten criminals you'll never meet, especially High Sierra's 
leads Roy and Marie, as well as supporting characters Big Mac and mob
doctor Banton. 

 Bogart lends some desperately-needed intensity to High Sierra as a
superstar gangster who's the object of young Red's antihero worship. He's
a complex and sympathetic figure--and this is one of the film's strengths.
Roy doesn't shrink from commiting crimes, yet he's capable of honorable
and kind behaviour, defending women and dogs and the elderly. Bogart's
brought down not by a femme fatale, but by Walsh's clunky direction.
Especially awful is one scene where Bogart threatens a co-conspirator over
and over. And over. Scenes where he assaults other characters are
laughably unconvincing. 

 Though it's less well-known than High Sierra ,
 I Died a Thousand Times is tighter, darker and more tragic. It
omits High Sierra 's leisurely opening sequence
tracing Bogart's release from prison and his cross-country drive to the
Sierra Nevadas. Instead, director Stuart Heisler establishes a circularity
in the film by opening with Jack Palance's Roy staring at the mountains
and briefly repeating that scene near the end of the film. 

 The mountains are a holy grail for Palance, symbolising cleanliness and
purity on one hand and deadliness on the other (Roy tells Marie the
mountains are "so cold they could kill a man.") The strange combination of
purity and deadliness rematerializes in, of all things, Pard the dog, the
first and possibly only chien fatale in film history. It's not really Pard
who's the fatale force in I Died a Thousand Times --that might be
too perverse, even for a film noir. It's Roy's desire for a clean and pure
domestic life with a wife and a dog. It's the American Dream that can
really take it out of you, director Heisler subversively says. 

 That subversiveness comes across in I Died a Thousand Times 
because of Palance's subtle acting. When Bogart hugs Pard the dog in High Sierra , he's simply happy. When Palance hugs
Pard the dog, his happiness is laced with a desperate desire to reinvent
himself as a family man--even in a family of strays. Pivotal also to the
remake's subversiveness is the character of Velma. She and Bogart share a
romantic moment in High Sierra , but when Palance
tries to get romantic, his Velma rejects him. Palance is perfectly matched
with Shelley Winters' pathetic taxi dancer Marie, who's deluded into
thinking she's able to use her sexuality to control men when in reality,
men are taking advantage of her sexually. Likewise, Palance is deluded
into thinking he has a chance with Velma. Heisler is far less sentimental
a director than Walsh, and so Palance's overwhelming, overreaching desire
to realise the American Dream becomes "so cold [it] could kill a man." 

(revised December 28, 2000)

 Dark City home | film
titles | directors 
| book
titles and writers 
| feature | linx 
| web authors 

 (&copy; NOIR, 2002)