Film Noir Directors: Billy Wilder 

 Something Wilder 

 There's a scene in Double Indemnity where Fred
MacMurray ventures out on the open platform of a moving train. Disguised as the man he just murdered,
Mr. Dietrichson, MacMurray's crooked insurance salesman is about to fake a fall from the train and
collect double the insurance money. But his plan is interrupted by a chatty fellow passenger. The 
suspense is deliciously unbearable. You can't wait for MacMurray to send the passenger away on a false 
errand. You want this murderous antihero to get away with it. 

 That's what makes Double Indemnity a seminal film
noir. It's also likely why the film's director and co-writer Billy Wilder was dubbed a cynic by the
Hollywood press. In the wake of his recent death in March 2002, he's being reevaluated in kindlier
terms. People Weekly renamed him a subversive. Time magazine film critic Richard Corliss
offered up this defence: "Nearly 40 years ago, critic Andrew Sarris wrote, 'Billy Wilder is too cynical
to believe even his own cynicism.' Today we can see that Wilder was less a cynic than a premature
realist." 

 Cynic or subversive, Dr. Jekyll or Mr. Hyde on the set, dictatorial or self-deprecating, one thing
about Wilder is clear. He's one of the greats. His films are witty, dark, trailblazing, fatalistic and
oddly empathetic. Detective stories like The Maltese
Falcon end with the heroic detective triumphing over the evil underworld. Watching Double Indemnity , the audience identifies with the
backstabbing murderers. And Gloria Swanson may play a deluded diva in Wilder's greatest film Sunset Boulevard , but her desire to be loved is not
grotesque, merely human. 

 Biography 

 1906. Samuel Wilder is born to a Jewish family in Galicia, in what used to be the former 
Austro-Hungarian empire, now Poland. Mum Eugenia was so impressed by a Buffalo Bill show in her trip to 
America that she nicknamed him Billie. 

 When Billie is 4, the Wilders move to Vienna. 

 At 18, Wilder becomes a journalist in Vienna writing crime stories and interviewing stellar 
psychoanalysts like Alfred Adler. After showing up on Freud's (yes, Freud) doorstep, he gets the door 
slammed shut in his face. 

 1929. While working as a journalist in Berlin, Wilder moonlights as a screenwriter, collaborating 
with Next Big Things Fred Zinneman (director of From Here to Eternity ) and Robert Siodmak 
(director of The Killers and Criss Cross ). 

 1933. Hitler comes to power. Wilder leaves for Paris. 

 1934. Wilder arrives in America. A fellow refugee gets him a temporary writing gig with Columbia 
Pictures. Wilder takes English lessons with roommate Peter Lorre ( The Maltese Falcon ). 

 1937. Marries painter Judith Iribe, the mother of his only child, Victoria. 

 1938. Teams up with ex-theatre critic Charles Brackett and starts co-writing some hits, including 
 Ninotchka (1939) starring Greta Garbo and Ball of Fire (1941). 

 1942. Makes debut directing Ginger Rogers in the hit comedy The Major and The Minor. 

 1944. Directs Barbara Stanwyck in Double Indemnity . 

 Double Indemnity earns a slew of Oscar nominations, including Best Picture, for Wilder's directing
and screenwriting with Raymond Chandler. But things don't go Wilder's way as he loses to the Bing
Crosby flick Going My Way . Wilder trips filmmaker Leo McCarey as McCarey walks up the aisle to
accept the Best Picture Oscar. 

 "An extraordinary woman .... Never a fault, never a mistake--just a wonderful brain she 
had."
 --Wilder on Stanwyck 

 "[Working with Wilder] was an agonizing experience and has probably shortened my life, but I 
learned from it as much about screenwriting as I am capable of learning."
 --co-screenwriter Raymond Chandler, Double Indemnity 

 1945. Embarks on The Lost Weekend with Ray Milland as the alcoholic lead character. Wilder 
drops Milland's character's homosexuality from the final cut, because the picture is already taking 
heat from a defensive liquor industry. Wilder cleans up at the Oscars, bagging his first two awards for 
directing and co-screenwriting. 

 Returns to post-World War II Germany while working for the U.S. Office of War Information. 
Incorporates real-life footage of death camps into a film called Death Mills , shown in Germany. 
Wilder learns his mother, stepfather and grandmother perished at Auschwitz. He tries to locate his 
father's grave but fails. 

 1949. Divorces first wife Judith. Marries Audrey Young. 

 1950. Directs Gloria Swanson and Erich von Stroheim (pictured with Wilder, below) in Sunset Boulevard . Wilder is rightly honoured with the Best 
Screenplay Oscar. 

 1957. Directs Marilyn Monroe (below) in Seven Year Itch by having her skirt blow up over her 
legs.

 1959. Makes the cross-dressing comedy Some Like It Hot . Wilder hires a drag queen by the name
of Barbette to teach stars Tony Curtis and Jack Lemmon their moves. Curtis is an A student but Barbette
sours on Lemmon, quitting after just three days. 

 Wilder flanked by Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau 

 1960. The Apartment doesn't cramp Wilder's style. In fact, the comedy earns Wilder 3 of his 6 
Oscars, for writing, directing and Best Picture. 

"He was a scientist of American culture. He knew us better than we knew ourselves." 
 --Shirley MacLaine

 1963. Makes Irma La Douce , his biggest grosser ever. 

 1981. Makes Buddy Buddy , his last film. 

 1988. Receives the Irving Thalberg Oscar. 

 2002. Dies on March 27. The New York Times obituary is here. 

 Notable Quotables 

 "I have a curious accent which is a mixture of Arnold Schwarzenegger and Archbishop Tutu."
 --Wilder on English as his second language. 

 "If you've never laughed at a funny Billy Wilder picture, you have never laughed." 
 --President Bill Clinton, presenting the Arts and Humanities Awards medal to Wilder in October 
1993. 

 "I'm accused of being vulgar. So much the better. That proves I'm close to life." 
 --Wilder on Wilder 

 "Billy Wilder at work is actually two people--Mr. Hyde and Mr. Hyde." 
 --unnamed Wilder collaborator 

 "He was constantly trying to get me to hate him. Now and then he succeeded."
 --Biographer Maurice Zolotow on Wilder 

 "It's not really what I want."
 --Wilder on abandoning his autobiography after completing 620 pages 

 "Because for three Wilders I can get a Spielberg." 
 --a "fan" who requested three autographs 

 "Writers do not sign autographs. Autographs are for actors. BW." 
 --message on preprinted cards Wilder sent to autograph-seekers 

 "In my day movie stars used to dress, even if they were going to the store." 
 --Wilder telling off a casually-dressed Tom Cruise 

 "I was not a guy who was writing deep-dish revelations. If people see a picture of mine and then sit 
down and talk about it for 15 minutes, that is a very fine reward, I think. That's good enough for me." 
 --Wilder on his craft and his art 

 Noirography 

Double Indemnity (1944) 

Sunset Boulevard (1950) 

Ace in the Whole (a.k.a., "The Big Carnival") (1951)

 Links 

 The German-Hollywood Connection site 
profile on Wilder

 El mundo de Billy Wilder en Espanol!

 IMDB page on Billy Wilder 

 (April 18, 2002) 

 Dark City home | film
titles | directors 
| book
titles and writers 
| feature | linx 
| web authors 

 (&copy; NOIR, 2002)