COOL SCIENCE insanely great science websites COOL SCIENCE 

 Up to SCI. HOBBYIST | 

 GUESTBOOK | 

 GOOD STUFF | 

 NEW STUFF | 

 SEARCH 

 *** INSANELY GREAT *** 
 Science Websites 

 Now sponsored by The Science Club 

 Cool Science Links (Collections Elsewhere)

 My Big Coolscience Site List 

 My Own Cooler Stuff 

NOTICE: now on CDROM, The 
Amateur Scientist , all 810 of the
columns from Scientific American magazine (C.L. Stong, Jearle 
Walker, Shawn Carlson.) Approx 1000 amateur projects, pp2100 $24.99. 
See a Sample .

 Explore these Massive, time-sucking indexes of CoolSci: 

Hubble Space Telescope's Greatest Hits 
 Lots and lots of pictures, great for desktop wallpaper.
Also try NASA picture of the day and Astronomy picture of the day 

Cool Robot of the Week 
 A large collection maintained by 
NASA telerobotics . With archives going back to 1996.

The Memepool: Science Archive 
 The Memepool is an excellent,
eclectic "cool sites of the week" page with all links to all sorts of
somewhat warped websites. Browse their collection by subject .

 Exploratorium's "Cool Sites" archive 
 The Exploratorium's Learning Studio maintains a monthly "Top Ten" page 
for science sites. They've ferreted out the cream of webscience cool 
sites. Don't miss their past months' archive.

 Dr. Matrix' Weird Web World of Science - Awards Page 
 Dr. Matrix cruises the www and collects the coolsci sites for his 
Awards page. Seventeen catagories, hundreds and hundreds of science
sites. Cruise the rest of his site for fascinating, thoughtful commentary

 SCIENCE CITY 
 Science hotlist from New Scientist magazine. They've got Scientific American trounced
but
good. (...not necessarily! Sci Am just got a late start, see below...)

 The Editors Selections 
 Science hotlist from Scientific American Magazine.

 Science Friday: HOTLINKS 

NPR Radio's TALK OF THE NATION: SCIENCE FRIDAY is not to be missed.
They've also built a nice collection of eclectic science links.

ZOOLAND Artificial Life Resource 
 The famous/infamous (delete one) Santa Fe Institute brings us this 
brainmeltingly-extensive collection of links to sites involving Artificial
Life; a-life. Zerosum breakage and titfortat dealings.
Simulations, animations and applet-based growings. Fractals and
fishtanks and emergentboid wings ...these are a few of my favorite 
things!

 Cool Science Archive from the 
 Nat. Acadamy Press 
 Also check out the NAP reading room for all sorts of
science books online. Yes, complete actual illustrated books on the
internet for free. Also try some non-science at 
Litrix reading room .

 The Virtual Laboratory at Pilot to Physics 
 An excellent (and large) collection of hands-on Java applets,
shockwave, and VRML programs for the visual learning of physics concepts.
Also check out online textbooks 

 ENC Digital Dozen Archive 
 Eisenhower Nat. Clearinghouse picks a monthly top-12 science education
sites. No dry textbook sites, this archive of past picks is the really
cool stuff.

 Hands on Science Centers Worldwide 
 Science Museums have the coolest websites. Here they all are, all at 
once. Take it slow, don't get brainburn.

 PITSCO COLLAB. PROJECTS 
 From the Pitsco Science Catalog site, a collection of "collaborative
projects," a cool-science link collection by any other name.

 Interesting Devices on the Net 
 From Yahoo, this is an immense and venerable collection of sites with live 
stillcams, interactive robots, and all manner of instrumentation 
connected to the net. Spy on people's offices all over the world. See the 
coffee pot that started it all. Watch 24hr timelapses at the UW. Talk to 
the cat. See if the pop machine at MIT has any warm Jolt cola left.

 Franklin Institute's hotlist of online exhibits 
 A list of highly interactive Cool Science sites. Also see their
 monthly hotlist .

 Yahoo's SCIENCE index 
 Hours of surfing pleasure. If you find something here that should be 
in Cool Science, drop me a note!

 Physics Servers and Services Around the World 
 A must-see site for the physics buff. The WWW offerings of all 
physics departments everywhere, all in one place.

 SCIENCE MUSEUMS , Yahoo 
 More and more museum sites.

 Other people's hotlists 
 Not science, but not to be missed. A big compendium of "cool sites" sites.

 Omni Magazine Cool Site ofthe Day 
 OMNI bases their 'cool site' picks on a bit less normal criteria than
other index sites... with excellent results!

 Great Big List of Various Cool Places 
(in no particular order) last update: 8/24/2004

 NPR Science Friday radio show's audio archive
 Annals of Improbable Research 

 For dead links try Wayback Machine 

 Sodium blast 
 McCulloch illusion 
 Sidney Harris cartoons 
 Conway's "Life" simulator 
 Kids & Science (Tech. U. of Vienna
 Circular holes in clouds 
 EPOD Earth Science Picture of the Day, and archive 
 Anthrax neckties, Staphlococcus boxer shorts, etc.
 UK television show: Rough Science 
 Stupid movie physics 

 Nuke explosions , weird shapes in the first instant
 "Eye tubes" , green electron glows, some w/ animation , 
 Bio , 
 Chem , 
and Math 
with Tom Lehrer 
 or try Flanders/Swann First & Second Thermo song (mp3)
 They had fun naming the The Johnson Solids 
 Optical Illusions , and more 
 Geoffrey Pyke , demented genius
 Improbable articles 
 Hair Club For Scientists 
 backwash.com: science: fun, weird, gross 
 Heddy Lamar , actress, military designer, invented Spread Spectrum radio

 Webby awards: Science & Edu 
 Getty Museum: Devices of Wonder 
 Becoming Human 
 NASA Earth Observatory 
 e-Nature 
 PLUS magazine 
 Molecular Expressions: optics/microscopy 
 Cave of Lascaux 
 The Exploratorium 
 Monterey Bay Aquarium 

 NASA Space Science 
 NASA Starchild 
 Russian sci. anecdotes from M. Perakh 
 To Ride a Trebuchet , man-hurling catapult!
 Calresco, complexity & a-life 
 matchrockets.com , science experiements
 Atom Flowers , electron orbitals
 Scientists' wagers 
 John Bently, the Snowflake man 
 My mother, the scientist 

 UW's realtime sonar camera , and 
 images 
 Hidden Images inserted in music spectra
 Ripple-tank applet , also others 
 History of hobbyist computing 
 Moon wiggles , as viewed from Earth
 Liquid Nitrogen Icecream Recipe 
 Stupid Movie Physics 
 ONLINE VIRTUAL REALITY WORLDS (free Adobe plugin)
 BBC Science Shack 

 Experimental Musical Instruments 
 Sodaplay Constructor (amazing animated ball/spring JAVA sim)
 Lavalamp-generated haiku 
 Become a Brain Donor 
 Heavens-above: look for IST, shuttle, satellites, etc. 
 SciFaiku! 
 ZORB! zorb, zorb, zorb. 
 Fly powered model airplanes 
 "Hummingbird" flying platform 
 SoloTrek personal flying machine

 Huge man-made tornadoes from Reelefx Inc.
 PhysicsLimericks 
 Fractal video feedback 
 Science-a-Go-Go (excellent online forum, strange news items)
 Studmuffins of Skepticism 1999 calander
 Institute of Druidic Technology :)
 Lasers made from White Paint! 
 Bionic Design at NAIR (.jp)
 Inventor of the Week Archive at the Invention Dimension 
 The Scientific Method (from the founder of EDMUND SCIENTIFIC)

 Virtual Physics Demos (in Java, etc.)
 Fractal Art Webring 
 Lifesmith's Fractals Hotlinks 
 The Meteorite Exchange 
 Delightful Machines 
 Why Files: Oddball Research 
 PHYSLINK physics fun 
 Searching for the 1997 Greenland meteorite 
 J. Walker's FOURMILAB 
 MIT Ants 

 Smart-Tech Demos: Alife, CAs, fuzzy, neural, genetic-alg, brains, etc.
 J. Cramer's Alternate View articles from Analog SF
 Fantastic Forest at Nat. Geographic
 The "Notochords" science music?
 Submarine Races 
 Infinite Fractal Loop (fractal gallery webring)
 Gallery of atomic microscope (STM) art
 Telson Spur , Phil Hughe's gigantic science links collection
 Cliff Pickover page 
 Visible Human project

 Mushroom clouds 
 Aerogel Photo Gallery from MMG Berkeley 
 Innocent Inanimate Objects (shot by large caliber guns)
 New Scientist Magazine: "Last Word" Q&A 
 BioMedNet HMSbeagle newsletter 
 Turtle Trax 
 aLife Garden , design your own Artificial Life creature
 "Complexity" at Exploratorium
 Animated Human Anatomy 
 Flying Contraptions 
 How Things Work: The physics of everyday life
 Illusions and Perception online exhibit
 The Live Articial Life Page 
 Leeches 
 Chindogu , the art of useless inventions
 Earth and Sky radio show
 Characterization of Organic Illumination Systems (pickles!)
 Wheelchairs with Legs 
 "OMNISCIENCE FUTURENEERING" 
 Weather Reports for USA locations
 Weather Satellites GIFs & Movies
 Bee Eye view of the world
 AGD Science Antics/Mayhem 
 Cells Alive! 
 Flapping Wings! The Ornithopter Home Page 
 Particle Adventure! 
 Tele-Garden Robot 
 Waseda Univ. Humanoid Project Home Page 
 Just For Middle School Kids 
 Electronic Zoo 
 Southwestern Archaeology 
 Mars Multi-Scale Map 
 Survival Research Labs Dangerous robotic sculpture
 The T.W.I.N.K.I.E.S. Project 
 Starting a grill with 10gal of Liquid O2 
 Exploratorium Museum
 Bad Science 
 Paper Airplane of the month
 Micscape Microscopy page
 Internet Museum of Holography 
 Science Jokes 
 Preview The Heart 
 The Nerdity Test! 
 MIT Online Hack Archive (student shennanigans)
 Science Factoids 
 The Nine Planets 
 Society for Amateur Scientists 
 Helping Your Child Learn Science 
 Science on Da Web 
 Marilyn Vos Savant is WRONG
 MIT 'borgs 
 Cold Fusion Page
 Sarfatti's Physics Page 
 The Science Club 
 A Gallery of Interactive On-Line Geometry 
 Space Movie Archive 
 Amethyst Galleries' Mineral Gallery 
 VolcanoWorld 
 John Conway's Game of Life 
 Virtual Frog Dissection Kit 
 NetFrog 
 The Face of Venus 

EM pulse Can Crusher at RPI Plasma Dyn. Lab
 THE OFFICIAL TRUTH 
 Zen and the Art of Debunkery 
 Forteana Page
 Swamp Thing 
 Mad Scientist Page 
 Forbidden Circuitry (wiretap.spies) 
 The Fractal Microscope 
 The Belljar 
 YOU CAN with Beakman & Jax" 
 Bill Nye T.S.G. 
 Ask Dr. Neutrino 
 MAD SCIENTIST NETWORK Recommended! Large group of scientists!
 Arbor Scientific 's catalog
 Journal of Scientific Exploration 
 SETI Institute 
 PEAR, Princeton Engineering Anomalies Research
 Frankel's Page , biological anomalies
 Fortean Times magazine
 WARNING: dihydrogenmonoxide!!!
 Chaos at U. Maryland
 Ancient sparkplug inside rock 
 Strange Magazine 
 Ideas futures, science "stock market" 
 INTEC sound camera 
 Scott's Weird Web World of Science 
 Earth Viewer 
 Virtual FlyLab 
 Fractal Explorer 
 Introduction to Fractals. 
 Primordial Soup Kitchen 
 The world through the eyes of a bee 
 Current and Past Satellite Images 
 NrrdGrrl! 
 Sprott's Fractal Gallery 
 Comet Hale-Bopp 
 Stanford University Tour 
 The Henrietta Leavitt Flat Screen Space Theater 
 Backyard Ballistics! 
 Fun with Grapes - A Case Study 
 Unwise Microwave Oven Experiments 
 Flaming Poptart Blowtorches 
 The OTHER Flaming Poptart Blowtorch site 
 The Outrageous On-Line Uncle Al 

 My own NEAT STUFF 

 NEW STUFF list
 COOL STUFF list
 Evil genius hi-tech practical joke ideas , also MORE. 
 Soda-bottle voltage-motor 
 My "electricity" articles 
 Draw Holograms By Hand 
 New and different build-it projects 
 Strange and twisted build-it projects 
 Dangerous Capacitor-bank Experiments 
 Magnetic Levitation 
 Screwy Ideas 
 Ball Lightning Page 
 Widespread mistakes in science textbooks. 
 Science taboos, ridiculed geniuses 
 My Answers to science questions
 "Static Electric" Stuff 
 VandeGraaff Generator Page 
 Free Energy "perpetual motion" machines
 Mysterious electrostatic air-threads 
 Weird Science section
 Amateur Science section
 Sci. Education Resources 
 Tesla coil section

 /amateur/coolsci.html 
Created and maintained by Bill Beaty . Mail me at: billb@eskimo.com .

If you are using Lynx, type "c" to email.