COOL SCIENCE: other sites w/link collections 

 Up to COOLSCI | 

 GUESTBOOK | 

 GOOD STUFF | 

 NEW STUFF | 

 SEARCH 

 Google: 

 Explore these Massive, time-sucking indexes of CoolSci: 

 BoingBoing: Science 
 You can read a tagged BB to remove all those distracting nonScience 
articles! :)

 Reality Carnival 
 Cliff Pickover's mathPhysics-besotted fracture leading to the Imaginal 
Realm. Wipe the wormhole powder off your knees. And don't 
forget/remember (choose one,) to stay away from the brown DMT.

VideoSift: Science 
 Waste your work hours watching all these upvoted-ly best videos

MAKE Magazine: science 
 Don't limit yourself to their science projects, also take a look at 
the main page of Makezine blog

Metafilter: Science 
 Check out the Scientifical version of The Blue

 Reddit: science 
 Redditors scientific

The Naked Scientists from UK Cambridge U. 
 Articles by guest columnists, also check out their archive of
 podcasts , and their forum 

This Week In Science 
 Audio archives of the weekly radio show, from U. of Cal. Davis

Hubble Space Telescope's Greatest Hits 
 Lots and lots of pictures, great for desktop wallpaper.
Also try NASA picture of the day and Astronomy picture of the day 

 Exploratorium's "Cool Sites" archive 
 The Exploratorium's Learning Studio maintains a monthly "Top Ten" page 
for science sites. They've ferreted out the cream of webscience cool 
sites. Don't miss their past months' archive.

 AstronomyPicture of the Day NASA archive
 Ten years of collected photos and links from the famous APOD site.

 The Last Word 
 Science questions answered, from New Scientist magazine. 

SLASHDOT: Science 
 One of the best science-blogs. Updated by thousands of compulsive 
science geeks!

 The Editors Selections 
 Science hotlist from Scientific American Magazine.

ZOOLAND Artificial Life Resource 
 The famous/infamous (delete one) Santa Fe Institute brings us this 
brainmeltingly-extensive collection of links to sites involving Artificial
Life; a-life. Zerosum breakage and titfortat dealings.
Simulations, animations and applet-based growings. Fractals and
fishtanks and emergentboid wings ...these are a few of my favorite 
things!

Awesome Physics Applets by P. Falstad 
 Get lost in acoustic resonance and Electromagnetic hallucinatons.
And... and... HE GETS ELECTRICITY RIGHT! Slow charge flows through
always-filled pipes.
Also check out online textbooks 

 Hands on Science Centers Worldwide 
 Science Museums have the coolest websites. Here they all are, all at 
once. Take it slow, don't get brainburn.

 Interesting Devices on the Net 
 From Yahoo, this is an immense and venerable collection of sites with live 
stillcams, interactive robots, and all manner of instrumentation 
connected to the net. Spy on people's offices all over the world. See the 
coffee pot that started it all. Watch 24hr timelapses at the UW. Talk to 
the cat. See if the pop machine at MIT has any warm Jolt cola left.

 Franklin Institute's hotlist of online exhibits 
 A list of highly interactive Cool Science sites. Also see their
 monthly hotlist .

 Yahoo's SCIENCE index 
 Hours of surfing pleasure. If you find something in Yahoo that 
should be linked in Cool Science, drop me a note!

Cool Robot of the Week 
 A large collection maintained by 
NASA RAP . With archives going back to 2001 .

 SCIENCE MUSEUMS , Yahoo 
 More and more museum sites.

 Cool Science Archive from the 
 Nat. Acadamy Press 
 Also check out the NAP reading room for all sorts of
science books online. Yes, complete actual illustrated books on the
internet for free. Also try some non-science at 
Litrix reading room .

 Science Friday: HOTLINKS 

NPR Radio's TALK OF THE NATION: SCIENCE FRIDAY is not to be missed.
They've also built a nice collection of eclectic science links.

Updated 01/08/2010 

/amateur/coolidx.html 
Created and maintained by Bill Beaty . 

Mail me at: 
 .

 View My Stats