Which way does Electricity REALLY flow? 

 SCI. HOBBYIST | 

 ELECTRICITY ARTICLES | 

 GOOD STUFF | 

 NEW 

 WHICH WAY DOES THE "ELECTRICITY" REALLY FLOW? 
 (C)1996 William Beaty 

 Electronics teachers and authors of textbooks are often chided for 
passing on an "error" to their students. Teachers promote the (wrong?) 
idea that electric current is a flow of positive particles in one 
direction, when supposedly it's really a flow of negative electrons going 
the other way. 

 In fact, the chiders are wrong. They labor under the misconception 
that "Electricity" is made of negatively-charged particles called 
electrons. This fundamental error 
leads most people to imagine that electric currents are always a 
flow of negative particles. Actually, in some conductors the electric 
currents are a flow of genuinely positive charges, while in others the 
flows are indeed negative particles. And sometimes the currents are both 
positive and negative particles flowing at once, but in opposite 
directions within the same conductor. 

We cannot arbitrarily proclaim which way the charges "flow," since their 
true direction always depends on the type of conductive material. 

 Electricity is more than just electrons 

"Electricity" is not made of electrons (or to be more specific, Electric
Charge, which is sometimes called "Quantity of Electricity," is not made
of electrons.) Charge actually comes in two varieties: positive particles
and negative. In the everyday world of electronics, these particles are
the electrons and protons supplied by atoms in conductors. Physicists may
additionally deal with other charged particles: muons, positrons,
antiprotons, etc. But the "electricity" in common electrical devices is
limited to positive protons and negative electrons.

 [ MORE ARTICLES HERE ]

 Because the negative particles carry a name that sounds like 
"electricity," some beginners unfortunately start thinking that the 
electrons ARE the electricity, and they wrongly imagining that the protons 
(having a much less electrical name?) are not electrical. A few text and 
reference books even outright state this, saying that electricity is 
composed of electrons. Nope, wrong. In reality the electrons and protons 
carry electric charges of equal strength. If electrons are 
"electricity", then protons are "electricity" too. 

 Now everyone will rightly tell me that the protons within wires cannot 
flow, while the electrons can. Yes, this is true... but only true for 
metals. And it's only true for solid metals. All metals are composed of 
positively charged atoms immersed in a sea of movable electrons. When an 
electric current is created within a solid copper wire, the "electron sea" 
moves forward, but the protons within the positive atoms of copper do not. 

 However, solid metals are not the only conductors, and in many 
other substances the positive atoms *do* move, and they *do* participate 
in the electric current. These various conductors are nothing exotic. 
They are very common, they all around us; as close to us as they can 
possibly be. 

 Non-electron Charge-flow 

For example, if you were to poke your fingers into the back of an 
old-style television set, you would suffer a dangerous or lethal electric 
shock. During your painful experience there obviously was a considerable 
current directed through your body. However, no electrons flowed 
through your body at all. The electric charges in a human body are 
entirely composed of positive and negative charged atoms or "ions." 
During your electrocution, it was these charged atoms which flowed along 
as an electric current. The current in your flesh was a flow of positive 
sodium and potassium atoms, negative chlorine, and numerous other more 
complex 

positive and negative molecules. During the electric current, the 
positive atoms flowed in one direction, while the negative atoms 
simultaneously flowed in the other. Imagine the flows as being like 
crowds of of tiny moving dots, with half the dots going in one direction 
and half in the other. The populations of little dots move through each 
other without any dots colliding. The postive atoms behave like flowing 
protons, but protons with entire atoms attached. The negative atoms 
behave like electrons which are dragging an entire atom along with them. 
 So, inside human flesh ...which direction did the electric 
current REALLY go? Do we follow the negative particles and ignore the 
positive ones? Or vice versa, following the positives? There is a simple 
answer, but first... 

 Batteries are another example of non-electron or "ionic" conductors. 
Whenever you connect a lightbulb to a battery, you form a complete 
circuit, and the path of the flowing charge is through the inside 
of the battery, as well as through the light bulb filament and the 
connecting wires. Battery electrolyte is very conductive. Down inside 
the battery, within the wet chemicals between the two plates, the amperes 
of flashlight current appears as a flow of both positive and negative 
atoms. There is a powerful flow of electric charge going through the 
battery, yet no individual electrons flow through the battery at all. 
So, during the time when the charges flow between the two plates of the 
battery, what's the real direction? Not right to left, not left to 
right, but in both directions at once. About half of the charge-flow is 
composed of positive atoms, and the remaining portion is composed of 
negative atoms flowing backwards. Of course in metal wires outside the 
battery, the real particle flow is only from negative to positive. But 
inside the battery's wet electrolyte, the charge-flow goes in two opposite 
directions at the same time. (And if we should build a circuit entirely 
out of hoses full of salt water, with no metal conductors used, then 
 all the current would be bi-directional.) 

 Two-way currents are common 

There are many other places where these kinds of positive/negative charge
flows can be found. In the following list of devices-materials,
the electric charges found within the conductors are a combination of 
movable positive and negative
particles. During an electric current, both varieties of particles are
flowing past each other in opposite directions. 

 TWO-WAY POS/NEG ELECTRIC CURRENTS CAN EXIST IN: 

 batteries
 human bodies
 all living organisms
 acids (mostly protons flow)
 the ground
 the ocean
 the sky (ionosphere)
 electrolytic capacitors
 aluminum smelters
 liquid mercury and solder
 ion-based smoke detectors
 electroplating tanks
 fuel cells' proton conductor and "solid acid" membranes
 electrophoresis gels in research (esp. DNA testing)
 air cleaners, smoke precipitators, air ion flows
 particle beams
 the vertical "sky current" in the atmosphere
 gas discharge, which includes:
 electric sparks
 fluorescent tubes
 sodium and mercury arc streetlights
 neon signs
 the Earth's Aurora
 lightning and corona discharges
 arc welders
 Geiger counter tubes
 thyratron tubes
 mercury vapor rectifiers

This list is not so short. Again I ask you, what is the REAL direction of 
electric currents? We cannot solve the problem by belittling it, or by 
pretending that two-way currents pertain only to something exotic, or 
pretend that it's all completely separate from everyday life. Our own 
nervous system is based on the two-way currents. We dare not think that a 
current in a metal wire is "real," while currents in human flesh somehow 
are not. 

 Well, what is "current?" 

To gain some insight, let's examine the details. While trying to 
understand electric circuits and electrical measurements, we need a simple 
way to take measurements of this important entity named "Electric 
Current." But to measure currents, won't we first need to measure how 
much of the current is composed of negative particles going one way, and 
of positive particles the other? Yes, but we only need this 
information if we want to know everything about the electric 
current. The flowing negatives and positives are usually not equal, and 
the speed of the positives in one direction is usually not the same as the 
speed of the negatives in the other. Electric current can be complicated!

However, there is a cute trick we can pull in order to avoid having to 
look at the particles at all. And that trick holds the answer to the 
question. 

 Electric currents produce three main effects: magnetism, heating, and 
the voltage drop across resistive conductors. These three effects cover 
almost everything we encounter in electronics. And these three effects 
 don't care about the amounts of positive and negative particles, or 
about their speed, their mass, their charge, etc. If a hundred positive 
particles flow to the left per second, this gives exactly as much 
magnetism, heating, and voltage as a hundred negative particles flowing to 
the right per second. (Note: this is because reversing the polarity of 
the particles reverses the current, and reversing the particle direction 
reverses the current again! Two negatives make a positive.) Magnetism, 
heating, and voltage drop together represent nearly every feature that's 
important in everyday electrical circuitry. Therefore, as far as most 
electrical devices and circuits are concerned, it makes no difference if 
the current is made of positive particles going one way, or negative 
particles going the other... or half as many negatives flowing backwards 
through a crowd of half as many positives. 

Put simply, the "Ampere" doesn't care about the direction or 
speed of 
the flowing particles. 

 So, in order to simplify our measurements and our mental picture of 
Electric Currents, we cut away the unused parts of the picture. We make 
the negative particles positive, then add their current to any positive 
particles which were flowing forward. We ignore their speed, and instead 
measure only the flow rate: the number of charges flowing per second. We 
stop thinking of current as being a flow of real physical particles. 
Instead we intentionally define "electric current" as being a flow 
of exclusively positive particles flowing in one particular direction. 
We don't care about the real polarity of the particles. We don't care 
about their speed, and we don't care about their number. We ignore both 
the chemical effects and the effects of the velocity and direction of 
moving particles. We ignore the collisions between positive and negative 
particles. All we care about is the total net charge which moves past a 
particular point in the circuit. The real charges are too complicated to 
deal with, and the added complexity gets us very little information as 
long as we're only interested in voltage drop, magnetic fields, and 
heating. 

 Particle-flow is real, "Amperes" are not 

Once we start ignoring the speed and direction of the charges, then we
can easily build electrical instruments or "amp meters" which measure the
Conventional Electric Current in terms of the magnetism which the
charge-flow creates... or by the voltage drop which appears across a
resistor, or by the temperature rise being created in a calibrated piece
of resistance wire. These three types of meter will agree that a
"current" is a "current" regardless of the particle polarities and flows. 
Then we can use these meters everywhere. In nearly every situation they
will tell us all we could ever want to know about flows of charged
particles in any circuit. An amp-meter might not be appropriate when
used in an exotic physics experiment. It won't paint the correct picture
when designing electron beams inside vacuum tubes, or ion flows in nerve 
fibers. It cannot detect real
current, instead it only measures our conventionally-defined simple
current. But for more than 99% of electricity and electronics, the
direction of the particles is irrelevant, and an ammeter tells us the
so-called "real" current while hiding the true particle flows. 

Or to put it simply: we pretend that "electric currents" are always 
composed of POSITIVE particles of unknown speed, so that any negative 
currents are defined 
as positive particles flowing backwards rather than negative particles 
flowing forwards. 

 Confusing students for two hundred years 

We do cause some problems by choosing a positive charge convention. For 
example, what happens if we all spend many years thinking in terms of such 
simplified "electric current?" Might we eventually start believing that 
this oversimplified concept of positive electric current is REAL? Yet 
it's not real, it's simply one way to simplify things. There's a genuine 
difference between the simplified picture versus the actual particle 
flows. The Amps would not quite match a visual picture of moving 
particles. But if we truely believe that the amperes are real, we might 
start to doubt the existence of flowing charges. We might start to see 
"Electric Current" itself as a sort of abstract, invisible, 
difficult-to-imagine thing. We might lose track of the facts that 
electric current is an actual flow of matter. We might lose track of the 
fact that there are real, visible particles flowing along inside that 
circuit, or that these particles have an actual average speed, mass, and 
direction. 

Because "amperes" are so incredibly useful, the simplified interpretation
of Current takes over and becomes more real than reality. It
allows us to understand parts of physical science which otherwise might be
too complicated to imagine. But in letting the positive charges take
over, some nagging questions are left behind, such as "WHICH WAY DOES THE
ELECTRICITY REALLY FLOW?" (grin!)

PS 
This over-simplified fake electric current measured by ammeters is 
commonly called " Conventional 
Current ." The link gives 16,000 google hits. By convention, we 
define the flowing charges to 
be positive. Yet something is missing! Nobody talks about the 
" Conventional 
Charge !" No google hits! The conventional current must be a flow of 
conventional charge, so first we should teach our students about the 
existence of oversimplified charges, "conventional charges," charges which 
we pretend are inside all the wires. If we did this, then "conventional
current" would be much easier to accept, no? 

Also see:

 Collected essays: electricity articles here 
 Neg. and Pos.; Ben Franklin was right after all 
 The real speed of electric current 
 Electricity FAQ , all your questions answered. Well, most.
 Electricity misconceptions: 
links 

/amateur/elecdir.html 
Created and maintained by Bill Beaty . 
Mail me at: 
 .

 View My Stats