HOW CAN ELECTRIC CURRENT NOT CAUSE A SHOCK?

The numerical answer:  Voltage is like electrical pressure, voltage causes
charges to flow, and when charges flow through our bodies at a low rate,
we can't even feel anything.  When they flow at more than a certain high
rate, bad things happen.  To stay safe, we should only play with voltages
which are way less than 45 volts.  Don't mess with plug-in appliances,
they use 120 volts.  As long as the electric charges flow through your
body at a rate that is lots less than 1/1000 of an ampere, you can't even
feel them.  To stay safe, only send electrical current through your body
at a rate less than 1/1000 ampere, and do this by staying away from high
voltage.  But this is numerical, so it's not that meaningful.

The "electricity" which flows through human bodies is charged particles: 
potassium ions, sodium ions, chloride, etc.  Since these particles are
always inside our bodies, we can't say that "electricity" is dangerous.
Instead, it is the FLOW of charges which causes problems.  Think like
this: human beings are partly composed of movable "electricity" or
charges, but these charges normally don't move much.  If something makes
them move, abnormal things can happen.  When someone gets a shock from
touching wires, electricity was not put into their body from outside. 
Instead, the electric voltage on the wires pushed on the charges inside
their body, which caused an electric current to appear inside.  During
electrocution, human beings become part of an electric circuit, and the
circuit causes their "electricity" to being flowing fast.

During electrocution, the unnatural electric current (ion currents) cause
nerves to fire, which causes muscles to tense, including cardiac tissue
and diaphragm (electric current can stop the heart and prevent breathing.)
Suddenly tensed muscles can throw your body across a room hard enough to
break bones or cause concussions.  Also, electric currents through the
heart can trigger fibrillation (sp?), which is a type of fast, quivering
heartbeat which does not pump blood.  Once fibrillation is triggered, it
might not stop by itself.  Also, large electric currents can cause heating
which cooks tissue. 

As long as the value of electric current within tissues is small, it will
not cause pain, heat, or muscle contraction.  For example, if you touch
the metal terminals of a 9 volt battery with wet fingertips from each
hand, the voltage pushes a measurable electric current in a circular path
through your arms and chest!  Yet the only result is that your fingertips
become full of corroded metal from the electrochemistry occuring where the
wet skin touches metal.  9 volt batteries are relatively safe.  Now if you
did the same thing with a 90 volt photographer's photoflash battery, the
voltage push is ten times higher, and the value of current would be ten
times higher. You'd feel violent pain, your arms would jerk away, and
some people would even go into cardiac fibrillation.  The 9v battery
creates a small current which you can't even feel.  The 90v battery
creates a larger current which is painful and dangerous. 

Voltage is not the only thing which determines whether you get a shock. 
ELectrical resistance of your skin is also important.  If the resistance
of your skin is low, then a voltage will create a larger current.  For
example, if you have tough, thick, dry skin on your hands, you might be
able to touch a 90v battery without harm (don't try it though!).  Your
higher skin resistance only allowed the battery to create a small current
through your body.  On the other hand, if you have thin, moist skin, then
the same battery voltage will push a much higher current through you.  If
your skin is thin enough, then even a 9v battery might cause a larger
current, which gives your fingers a slight tingle.

What is "safe?"  I've heard that the threshold for feeling an electric
current is around 1/1000 ampere.  Present UL regs say that voltage below
45 Volts is not an electrocution hazard.  These are general rules of thumb
for everyday situations.  However, voltages less than 45v aren't always
safe.  If you poked a 40 volt battery into a big cut on your chest, I
wouldn't guarantee that you'd survive that experiment!  The wound is a gap
in your skin, the wet meat inside your skin has low electrical resistance,
and your heart area is more sensitive than other parts of your body.  On
the other hand, if you accidentally touched the two prongs of an AC plug
while plugging them in, the current might flow only through your fingers. 
This hurts a lot, but won't cause death. 

One way to be slightly safer: touch a 900 volt battery instead!  A very
large flow of charge will appear inside you, which will fire all muscles
including your heart muscle.  This large current will automatically
defibrillate the heart.  Make no mistake, this is very painful and
extremely dangerous. But because of fibrillation vs. defibrillation
issues, there is a medium range of currents which are more dangerous than
low currents or high currents. The medium currents trigger heart
fibrillation.  High currents do not.  Still, high currents can quickly
cook flesh because of heating effects, so very high currents are still
dangerous. 

The safety of Alternating current isn't much different from direct current
if the AC frequency is low, like the 60 cycles per second on household
lines.  But for very high frequencies (like above 20,000 cps), the ions
don't really flow within the body, instead they sit still and quiver. This
doesn't fire nerves, so the pain, muscle contractions, and cardiac
problems go away.  All that's left is the danger of cooking your flesh. 
I've accidentally touched 200,000 cps power supply terminals which caused
my fingertips to become warm, and it made my sholder joints ache.  If the
same power supply ran at 60 cps instead, I would have felt a painful
shock. 


> And connected to this question, what makes a "ground" and what
> happens to the electricity when it goes into the ground?

"Ground" has several different meanings.  For electrical safety, "ground" 
is important because part of the electric company generators are connected
to the earth via metal ground rods driven deeply into the dirt.  When
you stand barefoot on the dirt, your body is connected to the electric
company generators!  When you touch metal pipes which lead into the earth,
same situation.  Why?  Lightning protection, mostly.  See "Why Three
Prongs" article for lots more about this.

Electricity doesn't really flow into the ground.  That's not the way to
think about it.  Instead, imagine that the ground is just another wire.
All wires are full of movable charges, they are full of "electricity." If
the two terminals of an electric generator were connected to the ground,
the generator would act as an "electricity pump", and the charges would
flow out of the ground, into one wire, through the generator, out through
the other wire, and back to the ground.  In this way the generator causes
the "electricity" of the ground to begin flowing.  But the generator
doesn't inject "electricity" into the ground, since the ground was already
full of movable charges to begin with.



((((((((((((((((((((( ( (  (   (    (O)    )   )  ) ) )))))))))))))))))))))
William J. Beaty                                  SCIENCE HOBBYIST website
billb@eskimo.com                                  www.eskimo.com/~billb
EE/programmer/sci-exhibits          science projects, tesla, weird science
Seattle, WA   206-781-3320          freenrg-L taoshum-L vortex-L webhead-L


