Physical Optics While Alone                    1998 W. Beaty

> Mark Martin - 02:43pm Jun 11, 1998 PDT  SAS FORUM
> I am interested in knowing if any serious research has ever been done or
> published on the optical streaks that one sees when squinting the eyes 
> on a brilliant light source. It occurs to me what the underlying physics
> probably consists of, but this seems to be fairly complex in that the
> streaks are often directed in numerous angles simultaneously, perhaps
> having to do with the interference of the eyelashes. I'd certainly be
> grateful for any direction someone may be able to provide. Thanx.

Hey, I once used to mess with this all the time!  Someone had asked me
about it years before, and then I noticed that the phenomena was extremely
bright and clear if I squinted at distant streetlights at night while
waiting for the train after work.  Often it was 30 minutes before the next
train arrived, so I put in many hours at this pastime.  It was legitimate
work, I was doing Science Museum research for answering everyday science
questions. :)  Don't stare at the sun, you'll go blind.  Use streetlights
in the night instead.

As P. Baum said, it is clear that the main vertical streak is caused by
the short-FL concave cylinder lens formed by the meniscus of tears along
the edge of the eyelids.  With teary eyes, the large amount of fluid
creates big and wavery images, while with nearly dry eyes one can squint
the eyes almost completely shut before the vertical stripe of light
appears. 

The edges of the vertical stripe are sharp and clear because the tiny
cylinder lens does not affect light in the horizontal plane (at least not
much.) 

Have you noticed that a horizontal "hump" of fluid can be formed on your
eye's surface?  View a distant streetlight at night, then cross your eyes
hard in order to de-focus them.  This causes the point-source streetlight
to become a disk.  (the disk is actually a shadow of your pupil, and if
you shine a flashlight in your OTHER eye, you'll see the disk contract.
Cats wouldn't see a circular disk!)  There will be detrius on the disk,
shadows of stuff on your cornea surface.  Blink a few times to "wipe the
pane".  If you now squint your eye almost closed, then open it wide and
de-focus it to produce the disk, you'll see a horizontal band.  This is
the hump of fluid.  Blink a couple of times quickly, and it goes away.  If
you view stars at night, occasionally this "hump" will cause every single
star to aquire some distorted points and horizontal bars.  Blinking
quickly will remove the effect, while squinting briefly will bring it back
again.

A phenomenon of note: low pressure sodium-vapor lamps will clearly show
all sorts of diffraction effects, including closely-spaced fringes of
incredible detail.  Merc vapor and incandescent streetlights give a
different effect.

I once saw an interesting phenomenon which would have given Issac Newton
nightmares.  I was riding in the back of a relatives' car.  They had one
of those cut-glass faceted spheres dangling from the rear-view mirror.  At
a stop light, the sphere was in the sun and swinging back and forth.  I
moved my head to find one of the refracted beams, and was rewarded with an
intensely bright pointsource which swept in frequency from deep red
through yellow green violet and then reversed.  I squinted my eye at it,
and WOW!  All sorts of minutely detailed diffraction frills appeared
(caused mostly by eyelashes), and as the crystal sphere swung slowly back
and forth, the entire array of fringes expanded and contracted in synch
with the color changes.  They expanded as they went from blue-green-red,
then contracted as they went red-green-blue.  The visual spectrum covers
about 2:1 frequency band, and sure enough, the diffraction patterns were
swelling and shrinking over about a 2:1 ratio.

Why would Newton chafe at this?  Newton apparently was a staunch believer
in the particle nature of light (although I've heard opinions that Newton
himself wasn't so rigid, it was the Newton-worshippers who came after him
who saw the wave-theory of light as blasphemy).  This swinging faceted
globe in the sun was displaying numerous and interconnected phenomena
which have a trivial explanation if light is waves, but would cause no end
of grief for someone who is convinced that light is particles, not waves.
Basic science discoveries made with almost zero equipment costs, no?

Here's another cool one-person demo, best done while alone.  If you are in
a car at night while its raining, try plastering your face against the
glass.  Slide it along until your eye is filled with the huge blurry image
of a single raindrop on the outside glass.  Move until a distant
streelight is captured by the distorting lens of the raindrop.  The
resulting image is full of incredibly fine diffraction fringes.  These are
probably a more detailed image than you've ever seen before, since they
are caused by shadows and lightwaves, and they do not depend on the
quality of your eye's lens.  The crazy caustics and interleaved
diffraction fringes, all slowly morphing as the droplet slowly makes its
way down the window, are something straight out of a dream.  Don't let
your wife catch you with your face all smashed and distorted on the glass,
staring fixedly off into the distance for many minutes at a time, while
humming old rock albums to yourself.  Bad trip, man! 

