
                                      
                                      
                     duesberg.htmlHave We Been Mislead?
                                      
HERESY! THREE MODERN GALILEOS

                            By Anthony Liversidge
                                      
                               Omni, June 1993
                                      
     Pauling believes that large dosages of vitamin C prevents
     manyailments, including cancer. Duesberg disputes the idea that
     certain oncogenes cause cancer in humans. Gold believes that
     petroleum is a product of geological processes.
     
     Last autumn, at last, the Catholic Church confessed. The New York
     Times' frontpage headline read: "After 350 Years, Vatican Says
     Galileo Was Right: It Moves." Following a 13-year investigation by
     an expert panel of scientiests, theologians, and historians, Pope
     John Paul II was prepared to correct the record.
     
     In 1632, Galileo wrote that he had evidence that the earth moves
     around the sun rather than vice versa. He should not, today's Pope
     now acknowledges, have been hauled before a tribunal, threatened
     with torture, forced to recant, banned from publication, and
     banished for the rest of his life to his country estate. As the
     Church panel now confirms, Galileo was right on the money all the
     time.
     
     Stale news for most of us. Moreover, the story of a great scientist
     battling established religion seems irrelevant to the modern
     world-or is it?
     
     Some leading scientists claim that the repression of Galileo's
     ideas only foreshadowed the politics they have to contend with
     today. They insist that another church has established itself, a
     more insidious enemy to truth seeking than the Catholic Church of
     old. This time the church shutting out new ideas as heresy and
     blocking the march of truth is the scientific establishment.
     
     The modern iconoclasts aren't New Age freaks, homeopaths, or
     astrologers-outsiders typically hostile to scientists who scorn
     them. They rank among the most distinguished and productive men and
     women in American science and include Nobel laureates. They are,
     you might say, the "modern Galiloes."
     
     If they're right, the Popes and Cardinals of modern science are
     turning a deaf ear to potential breakthroughs in cancer, heart
     disease, AIDS, and the global energy crisi. Even if they're wrong,
     their claims that a heretic in science, however well qualified,
     can't gain a fair hearing if he or she threatens the status quo
     often seem justified.
     
     Take Linus Pauling, the best known of these iconoclasts. He's a
     household name as a world-famous scientist and talk-show author of
     a popular book on diet, How to Live Longer and Feel Better. Pauling
     remains the only person in the universe to have won two unshared
     Nobel prizes: for Chemistry in 1954 and the Nobel Peace prize in
     1962 for his crusade against nuclear weapons, James D. Watson, the
     decoder of DNA, joins many other top scientists in calling Pauling
     "the greatest of all chemists."
     
     Pauling is hale and hearty at 92. His cheeks are rosy and his
     twinkling blue eyes clear and sharp. He seems the very picture of
     health despite a brief bout with prostate cancer last year, now
     under control, he claims. The only sign of age is a quaver in his
     voice. Pauling can brief journalists from memory on his latest
     work, quoting a slew of facts and dates without missing a beat.
     
     What Pauling is asked about most often is his favorite theory: that
     vitamin C in large doses not only wards off colds, but also the
     major afflictions of Western man-heart disease and cancer.
     
     The spry Pauling seems a living testimonial to his own advice. He
     stirs a whopping 18 grams of vitamin C into his orange juice every
     day, he says. But how about the prostate cancer? Pauling believes
     he delayed its progress by 25 years. Yet even as research piles up
     to suggest Pauling is correct, the medical establishment has
     scoffed and blocked publication of his theories in a top journal.
     
     The Proceedings of the National Academy is the publication of the
     most exclusive club in science. Pauling, a member since the
     Thirties, was first prevented from publishing an article in it on
     vitamin C and colds 20 years ago. The editor was adamant, although
     Pauling objected that he was curbing a right all members had to
     publish in the Proceedings without prior review by colleagues.
     
     A new rule was speedily cooked up, clearly to justify blocking
     Pauling. All articles that might be "of significant potential harm
     to the public welfare" would now be reviewed before publication.
     Under this rule, Pauling's theory of how taking vitamin C helps
     prevent heart trouble was also rejected in 1991. There was grave
     danger, the editors felt, that the public might be influenced by
     the authority of the Proceedings to challenge their doctors'
     advice.
     
     Censored by the Proceedings, Pauling published in a friendly
     journal, quoting Galileo: "Verily, just as serpents close their
     ears, so do men close their eyes to the truth."
     
     A recent review from Finland of all studies done so far backs
     Pauling on vitamin C and colds, and evidence now seems overwhelming
     that vitamins C and E do have value in preventing cancer. A big
     study by Dr. James Enstrom from UCLA reported recently that large
     daily doses of vitamin C cut heart disease deaths by nearly half in
     men and one-fourth in women. adding more than five years to life
     expectancy. It seems that vitamin C works this magic by stabilizing
     cholesterol at optimum levels and also by preventing it from
     hardening in the arteries.
     
     None of this has made life much easier for Pauling. He won the
     Vannevar Bush prize in 1989 from the National Science Foundation,
     but that same year, the same institution turned down his grant
     request for an assistant and a computer. Pauling's aim was to
     pursue his new ideas in the nature of chemical bonds in metals and
     alloys, the field that won him the Nobel.
     
     One reviewer suggested the money "would be better spent on creative
     young investigators, less fixed in their ways." Another accused him
     of "fiddling with the numbers . . . to come out with the right
     answer" in his grant application, Pauling answered that the
     reviewer was ignorant of one of his (Pauling's) own discoveries 55
     years earlier. The four other reviewers were complimentary and
     recommended funding, but that wasn't enough.
     
     "If a scientist tries something original, he will have trouble
     getting grants and getting papers published," says Pauling
     philosophically. "Most say I have been right so often in the past,
     I am probably right about vitamin C, too. I don't have any trouble
     with them. It's the physicians who don't have open minds. There is
     a real bias on the part of the medical establishment about
     megavitamins."
     
     Their prejudices exist, he believes, because doctors confuse
     vitamins with the drugs that have proved effective against disease
     in small doses and which are toxic in large doses. They fail to
     understand that while small doses of vitamin C are needed to
     prevent scurvy, larger doses might be beneficial, too. "Authorities
     who have lectured on nutrition to students for fifty years saying
     higher doses of vitamins have no value don't want to say they are
     wrong."
     
     The National Academy of Sciences, in response to complaints from
     Pauling and others, has, however, set up a committee to review the
     books and articles it publishes that condemn megadoses of vitamins
     out of hand.
     
     Pauling's frustration is typical of science in general judging from
     the long list of latter-day Galileos who have been first trashed
     and then vindicated. The most famous is German meteorologist A. L.
     Wegener whose 1912 theory of continental drift met with generalized
     hostility and rejection. Wegener eventually gave up the struggle,
     complaing of scientists' "partiality" to the reigning paradigm, and
     pursued other goals. Fifty years later, mechanisms of plate
     tectonics and seafloor spreading were detected, and he's now
     admired as a revolutionary thinker.
     
     But some of the blindest fanaticism in favor of the received wisdom
     seems to come in medicine. Louis Pasteur won honors, wealth, and
     fame for proving that microbes cause disease and ferment beer, but
     only after weathering public attacks from his friends in the French
     Academy.
     
     The most blatant case of medical blinkers is that of Ignaz Philipp
     Semmelweis. In 1847, the young Viennese doctor simply proposed that
     his colleagues wash their hands with disinfectant after dissection,
     before they delivered babies. His program cut the death rate of
     mothers in hospital ward from 16 percent to less than 2 percent.
     Semmelweis, only the equivalent of an intern, was hounded out of
     Vienna by his superiors. After applying the same regimen with
     striking success in a provincial city for some years, he himself
     died from a dissection wound and the very puerperal fever he had
     shown how to curb.
     
     Knowledgeable observers are wondering whether Peter Duesberg of the
     University of California at Berkeley is another Semmelweis if not a
     Pasteur. An establishment heretic, Duesberg has run into a wall of
     rejection by scientists in his field, by the medical profession,
     and by the media. One reason is that his most sensational claims
     involve the highly politicized field of AIDS. Unlike Semmelweis,
     however, Duesberg has long been very prominent in his field. He is
     a virologist who specializes in retroviruses, the group of microbes
     to which the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) belongs. HIV is the
     virus almost universally thought to cause AIDS.
     
     While he's never studied HIV in the lab, Duesberg's credentials to
     inspect the evidence for this dogma seem impeccable. The
     55-year-old professor has belonged to the exclusive National
     Academy since 1986 for achievements which include being the first
     to decode the genes of retroviruses. He also identified the first
     of the oncogenes held to cause cancer. A letter in Nature said he
     desrved the Nobel Price for his oncogene work. Others have won
     Nobels for cancer-gene research, but not Duesberg. One reason may
     be that he's now notorious for his skepticism about human
     oncogenes. Although the field is fashionable and well funded,
     Duesberg himself has renounced any belief that such oncogenes have
     ever caused cancer in humans.
     
     "There is no evidence or proof that a gene of a cell ever caused
     cancer," Duesberg says flatly. "Not one. The only proven oncogenes
     are carried by rare animal retroviruses and, fortunately, are very
     unstable." Even the possibility is "frankly very implausible. A
     true cellular cancer gene would be found in each of the 100
     trillion cells in the human body, and we wouldn't be viable
     organisms. One would be activated far too often for us to live as
     long as we do."
     
     Already distinctly unpopular for this view, Duesberg became a
     pariah when he turned to AIDS. Attracted by the rise in funding
     going to AIDS research, Duesberg visited the library to examine the
     data behind the belief that AIDS is an infectious disease caused by
     HIV. He reached a startling conclusion and published it in Cancer
     Research, a leading journal, in 1987. HIV was not the cause of
     AIDS, in his judgment, and the evidence indicated that AIDS was not
     infectious. The symptoms, he concluded, were caused by drugs,
     disease, and other conventional assaults on the immune system.
     
     His retrovirology colleagues at first refused to argue, claiming
     that such doubt was absurd. A smattering of press coverage forced a
     response, however, and Science featured a limited, four-page debate
     between Duesberg and his detractors in 1988. Each side was allowed
     a statement and rebuttal, but further argument was sharply cut off.
     
     Duesberg turned to the Proceedings of the National Academy to press
     his case. Among many reasons for skepticism, he argued that the
     actual virus was virtually absent from the bodies of AIDS patients,
     even those who were dying of the disease. Moreover, lab work failed
     to show that HIV would kill the immune system's T cells, the loss
     of which is the hallmark of AIDS. He noted that predictions of huge
     rises in AIDS cases have consistently failed to come true in the
     United States, especially for heterosexuals.
     
     To date, he's published two articles, some 15,000 words, in that
     prestigious journal, and it's been an uphill battle all the way.
     The editors of the Proceedings enlisted a phalanx of special
     reviewers--26 at last count-to criticize his three submissions.
     None could identify a single uncorrectable flaw in fact or logic,
     as the editors acknowledged, only a difference of opinion.
     Nonetheless, this year the Proceedings refused publication of his
     third paper in the series, "The Role of Drugs in AIDS." Duesberg
     was forced to publish it in a French journal.
     
     Naturally, Pauling was used as a precedent for censoring Duesberg,
     with the Proceedings editors invoking the principle of protecting
     the public from his logic. Members are normally free-since they are
     all leading scientists, by definition-to publish whatever they
     wish, as long as they run it by one knowledgeable colleague who is
     not a coauthor.
     
     To Duesberg, it seemed obvious. The enlisted reviewers freely used
     blanket statements to damn his points, quoting little if any of
     their own evidence to contradict his more than 600 references to
     published evidence. "The response is unscientific, biased, and
     discriminatory," he says. "It violates academic freedom and the
     founding principle of the Academy, to evaluate and disseminate
     knowledge."
     
     The leading HIV proponents seem to have trouble in genuinely
     answering Duesberg. Robert Gallo of the National Cancer Institute
     was expected to reply to Duesberg in the Proceedings, but in three
     years has never done so. Gallo eventually dismissed Duesberg in his
     autobiography, a forum in which, skeptics pointed out, he was safe
     from his own peer review. Luc Montagnier, the discoverer of HIV,
     likewise promised the editors of a French journal to answers
     Duesberg, but never delivered.
     
     Since the major media inevitably follow the party line of their
     scientific sources in dismissing Duesberg, his views have won only
     limited coverage compared with the flood of news and opinion
     articles and government ads and TV films that drum the official
     message home. Behind the scenes, however, Duesberg has gained
     scientific support. Nobel Price winner Walter Gilbert of Harvard,
     one of the most respected names in U.S. biology, agrees that
     Duesberg's arguments are strong and as yet unrefuted. "I would not
     be surprised," he says, "if there were another cause of AIDS and
     even that HIV is not involved." More than a hundred other
     biomedical researchers around the world have joined the Group for
     the Scientific Reappraisal of the HIV/AIDS Hypothesis, which is
     publishing its own newsletter, Rethinking AIDS.
     
     In a sizable book with the same title, published by MacMillan Free
     Press in March, professor and MacArthur fellow Robert
     Root-Bernstein of Michigan State University in East Lansing also
     argues that scientists must look beyond HIV for other causes of
     AIDS. Root-Bernstein indicates that the spread of AIDS hasn't
     followed the HIV-only model and that medical history shows myriad
     AIDS look-alike cases without HIV infection. Even Luc Montagnier,
     the Pasteur researcher who discovered the "AIDS virus" now says
     that HIV is harmless by itself and has identified a
     cell-wall-missing bacterium called a mycoplasma as the essential
     cofactor.
     
     Meanwhile, Duesberg has lost his exceptional $300,000-a-year
     Special Investigator Grant from the National Institutes of Health
     (NIH), one of a handful awarded to the most distinguished
     scientists in the United States. Ironically, the recipients were
     specifically urged to use the award to "ask creative questions" and
     "venture into new territory." The ten-member review panel who
     turned down the renewal mostly included scientists making a living
     off theories Duesberg is undermining. With the help of a letter
     from his local congressman, Duesberg has succeeded in getting the
     NIH to reopen the case.
     
     Duesberg is more provocative than Pauling in explaining his
     treatment.
     
     He suggests that the ruling paradigm is consolidated by patronage.
     "People naturally reject a challenge to orthodoxy," he says. "They
     always did. But the scale is larger than ever. The orthodoxy never
     had $4 billion [of annual AIDS expenditure] in their court and a
     terminated grant in the other!" The huge inflow of funds has
     resulted in "totalitarian science," he says. "I am not aware of
     anything in history so entrenched."
     
     Another example of a modern Galileo where there's a great deal at
     stake is Thomas Gold, the Cornell cosmologist. His original ideas
     have been over-opposed throughout his career, despite a tendency to
     prove valid.
     
     For his master's thesis, Gold worked on the theory of hearing,
     proposing the idea that the inner ear generates its own tone. The
     ridicule of medical specialists forced him from the field.
     Thirty-six years later, he was the guest of honor at a conference
     of cochlea specialists. Studies found one family emitting sound
     from their ears loud enough to be heard without instruments.
     
     Gold was also the first to interpret pulsars as rotating neutron
     stars. When pulsars were found, the organizer of the first
     conference on the objects refused to allow Gold floor time, calling
     his analysis "crazy." Later, the same man began a paper with these
     words: "It is now generally considered that pulsars are rotating
     neutron stars"!
     
     Still hotl debated is Gold's long-running theory of the origin of
     petroleum, which turns conventional wisdom inside out. Every school
     text tells us that oil and gas are produced biologically, the
     residue of plant life eons ago, crushed and fermented, so to speak,
     in the interior of the earth. Gold says this is quite wrong. The
     origins of oil and gas are purely geological and not biological, he
     says. Oil and gas were formed as the planets cooled and should be
     found far outside the normal locations of drilling.
     
     Fellow scientists and petroleum engineers greet his ideas with rage
     and spite, he says. "People shake their fists at me!" he reports,
     "And the venom-you have no idea! It's incredible! If they could,
     they would burn me at the stake, like Savonarola," the monk who
     briefly held sway over fifteenth-century Florence. To Gold, the
     evidence is obvious. "You find methane and ethane on Titan and
     Pluto," he says, and it emanates from comets. "It is ludicrous to
     say this is biologically generated!"
     
     Acrimony arises because the majority in the field have "built an
     enormous construct and they cannot conceive that it is wrong," Gold
     says. "They have added on a huge edifice of supplementary notions
     to hold their theory together." That tendency has been noted since
     the Ptolemaic astronomers, who developed ever-more sophisticated
     mathematics to hold back the heresy of Copernicus in 1543 that the
     earth orbited the sun, not the other way around. Only Galileo and
     his telescopes finally demolished their defense.
     
     Gold tried to explain this scientific boneheadedness in a paper
     called "The Inertia of Scientific Thought." Why, he asked, is all
     criticism reserved for the new idea, while the old idea is
     automatically defended and any conflicting evidence simply brushed
     aside? Gold blamed a scientific "herd instinct," where safety and
     prosperity lie in running with the pack. This phenomenon is
     magnified, Gold argues, by the peer-review system. Whne as many as
     seven respected colleagues turn thumbs up or down on grant
     applications or on articles for publication, herd decisions are
     virtually guaranteed. "It is virtually impossible to depart from
     the herd and continue to have support." Once a herd view becomes
     entrenched, says Gold, it becomes almost impossible to dislodge, as
     it becomes harder and harder for anyone to admit that a mistake
     might have been made.
     
     Gold quotes Tolstoy: "Most men . . . can seldom accept even the
     simplest and most obvious truth if it obliges them to admit the
     falsity of conclusions which they have delighted in explaining to
     colleagues, which they have proudly taught to others, and which
     they have woven thread by thread into the fabric of their lives."
     There is also laziness, Gold notes. "Staying with the herd needs no
     justification: ~Doesn't everybody believe that?'"
     
     Ray Erikson, a distinguished Harvard biologist, says the public
     should understand that "scientists protect their turf like
     everybody else." But "the quality of data is what matters nowadays.
     People expect clean, crisp data, and when they see it, they can
     flip-flop very fast."
     
     James Watson, now director of the Cold Springs Harbor Laboratory on
     Long Island, agrees. He points to Barbara McClintock. Her Nobel
     Prize-winning theory of "jumping genes"-genes that move from site
     to site on the chromosome-was so at odds with conventional wisdom
     when she first worked it out in the Thirties that she delayed its
     professional publication for ten years. After a wait of 30 years,
     the difficult theory, says Watson, had been "shown to be true by
     new types of evidence which was overwhelming, and no one could
     doubt it." McClintock died recently a heroine of science, the New
     York Times quoting one scientist who called her "the most important
     figure there is in biology."
     
     Watson agrees that scientists may have a built-in prejudice against
     new ideas that challenge the status quo. "There is always some of
     that." But the real reason, to Watson's mind, why Pauling and
     Duesberg still hit a wall of indifference, is lack of "convincing
     evidence. People still get colds and cancer when they take vitamin
     C. Then it becomes, ~Has it made the cold less severe?' I take
     vitamin C myself to make my wife happy, and I still get colds, but
     I don't know if as many!" Likewise, "People [Duesberg] hasn't come
     up with any smoking gun. You can give all the reasons [for doubt],
     but most of us tend to believe the simpleminded interpretation."
     Duesberg responds that this ignores the evidence that nearly all
     AIDS victims are involved with drugs in one way or another.
     
     Gold is now pursuing his own irrefutable evidence in a Swedish oil
     well, where he reports finding methane at levels equaling those of
     good Oklahoma producers. If he's right, those who have stood in his
     way will have much to answer for. His theories promise a huge boost
     to global petroleum reserves, since oil and gas will be found far
     beyond the usual drilling sites.
     
     With so much at stake, if there's even an outside chance that a
     reputable heretic is right, the public interest demands open-minded
     assessment, however critical. Anything less may let policy makers
     pour billions into wrong solutions. Science is not a democracy. One
     bright Galileo can be right and ten thousand traditionalists wrong.
     
     Could always sort out the disputes? They're outsiders trained in
     logical argument, after all. One law professor, Philip E. Johnson
     of the University of California at Berkeley, wrote a book recently,
     Darwin on Trial, which cheekly did just tha-came in and castigated
     Darwin's theory of evolution as the unproven sacred cow of biology.
     But even Johnson thinks review panels of lawyers would be a bad
     idea. "External regulation would be too cumbersome. Scientists just
     have to learn to develop a cultural resistance to a few dogmatic
     voices cutting off lines of inquiry." Thomas Gold suggests that a
     panel of top scientists outside the field would do the job.
     
     Duesberg, like many, says that divorcing funding from reigning
     theories could help. "Take the huge sources of income away and make
     science small and honest again," he suggests. "You can't expect
     millionaires to ask unorthodox questions. If I had a company paying
     me millions for counseling on HIV, I should probably be silent,
     too. Poverty makes you honest."
     
     Short of these changes, a modern Galileo, as Pauling says, must
     simply wait. He quotes Max Planck, the German who won the Nobel
     Prize in 1918 for quantum theory: "Important scientific innovation
     rarely makes its way by gradually winning over and converting its
     opponents. What does happen is that its opponents gradually die out
     and that the growing generation is familiar with the idea from the
     beginning." *
     
                     duesberg.htmlHave We Been Mislead?
