Here's why I call these images "holograms"                W. Beaty

In conventional "white light" or "Benton Rainbow" holograms, each point on
the photographed object generates a particular interference pattern on the
film.  This interference pattern is the basic "pixel" of the hologram.  It
looks roughly like this:

    ||||||//////====----====\\\\\\||||||

In reality the little lines are thousandths of a mm apart.  However, the
entire swatch might be several mm wide, and a fraction of a mm tall.  It's
similar to a small slice of the bullseye pattern in a Gabor zoneplate
lens.  Points on the object become little horizontal swatches of
interference fringes on the film.

Imagine that a Rainbow hologram is made up of thousands of these "pixels" 
layed atop each other.  The X,Y position of each "pixel" corresponds to
the X,Y position of each object point.  For example, if you could stamp
the above interference pattern in many places on your film, you'd have a
rainbow hologram of a field of stars (but all of them having the same
depth.) 

The depth information for each point is encoded as the overall size of the
"pixel" pattern:  an image-point which reconstructs as deep within the
hologram will have a "pixel" with large width and slightly-curved fringes,
while a shallow point will have a tiny "pixel" and small-radius fringes. 
So a Rainbow hologram is very similar to a standard 2D photograph in
structure, but instead of pointlike pixels, it has various sizes of
swatches of interference fringes which store the depth info for each
recorded point.

The above crude figure implies something interesting: depth information is
only stored in the ANGLES OF THE SMALL FRINGES, and not in their spacing. 
If we observe a Rainbow hologram under laser light and under sunlight, we
find that both types of light will reproduce the holographic image, but
the sunlight causes the diffracted image of the sun to be spread into a
stripe of rainbow colors which will be seen within the horizontal "slot"
of each "pixel" fringe pattern.  Other than this rainbow-colored artifact,
the holographic image is not affected by illumination frequency.  A
rainbow hologram, within limits, is a frequency independent hologram.

Frequency independence implies fringe size independence.  In other words,
the Rainbow hologram should still operate correctly even if the fringes
were spaced much more widely than the frequency of light.  Huh?  Really? 
Yes.  If we double, or triple, or quadruple the fringe spacing of the
interference pattern, THE HOLOGRAM STILL WORKS.  Very strange.  And it
leads to something wonderful.  If the following pattern was scratched by
hand into a sheet of plastic: 

    ||||||//////====----====\\\\\\||||||

...it would create a little glowing dot which floats inside the plastic.
It would be a Rainbow Hologram "pixel", but with absolutely gigantic
interference fringes.  They wouldn't even be interference fringes anymore,
and optical interference would no longer apply.  Yet the hologram would
still function.  Holography without interference.  (Pretty easy to
generate with a computer, eh?  Hint hint!)

To recap, here is what we do: we take the "pixels" of a Benton Rainbow
hologram, square off the sinusoidal fringe pattern, increase the distance
between the fringes by several orders of magnitude, and lower their duty
cycle so they appear as single thin lines with wide spaces between them. 
In terms of interference, we would find that the "rainbow" artifact would
acquire numerous multiple-order copies of itself (produced by the square,
nonsinusoidal fringes), and as the fringe spacing was enlarged, the
multiple copies of the rainbow image would compress together into a
glowing stripe of white light.  The "rainbow" would be gone, it will have
turned white, yet the rest of the hologram still functions as it
originally did, it still creates the same 3D scene. 

The particular geometry of Benton's Rainbow holograms allows anyone to
draw the fringe patterns by hand with a needle, and to thereby create
holographic images without lasers and even without interference.  This can
be taken to ridiculous lengths: giant holograms composed of curved,
polished metal rods become practical.  The metal rods are the interference
fringes!

It is not strictly necessary that the above horizontal swatch of
interference pattern be exactly duplicated in order to produce a hologram. 
When the fringes have been widely separated they stop interacting, so an
individual "fringe" can replace the multiple-fringe pattern.  A
conventional hologram's pattern of nested hyperbolic fringes can be
replaced with a single curved reflective fiber or surface scratch.  It
need not even be hyperbolic, a circular scratch drawn with a compass makes
a dandy "hologram diffraction grating." 

I've been drawing holograms of simple 3D objects by scratching a polished
plastic plate by hand with a compass.  The X,Y position of the scratches
determines the X,Y position of the reconstructed image points, and the
radius of each scratch determines the perceived depth of the image point.
It's akin to needlepoint knitting, since images must be built up from
hundreds of brightly glowing dots.  It takes quite a bit of labor to
produce a simple image such as a piece of holographic text, or a 3D
polyhedron.

So far I've drawn such things as polyhedra, starfields, text at various
depths, opaque planes which hide text behind them, boxes with walls
composed of random dots, etc.  When lit with an extended source these
"holograms" appear as sets of fine curved scratches, somewhat like several
superposed LP record albums.  When illuminated by a point-source, each
scratch produces a small "highlight," and the whole set of scratches
produces a 3D object composed of bright highlight points. 

See, scratch holograms ARE real holograms.  Nyaa-nyaa, tol ya so! <grin!>

P.S.  

  I've received email which points out that conventional holograms store
  phase information, while "scratch holograms" do not.  This is correct. 
  The authors then use this fact to argue that "scratch holograms" are not
  holograms.  This is incorrect, because conventional Benton Rainbow
  Holograms don't use phase either.  That's why they can still operate
  under white light illumination. The spacing of their interference
  patterns is unimportant, it only affects the colors of the rainbow
  artifact.  If "scratch holograms" are not holograms because they do not
  record the phase of the light waves, THEN WE ARE FORCED TO SAY THAT THE
  RAINBOW HOLOGRAMS ON CREDIT CARDS AND ELSEWHERE ARE NOT HOLOGRAMS
  EITHER.  Such an assertion would be silly.  Therefor I jump on the
  coat-tails of Rainbow Holography and claim that if Rainbow Holograms are
  holograms, then so are "scratch holograms." 

  Other writers point out that "scratch holograms" are like conventional
  photographs in that they do not preserve the phase of the illuminating
  light source, and therefor they are not holograms.  This is incorrect. 
  Mirrors preserve the phase of reflected light.  So do the interference
  patterns of conventional Rainbow holograms.  So do the scratches of
  "scratch holograms".  They preserve the spatially-horizontal phase while
  scrambling the vertical phase.  Each scratch in a "scratch hologram"
  acts as a tiny cylindrical mirror, and it reflects in one dimension
  while scattering light in the other.  As a result, both rainbow
  holograms and "scratch holograms" only have horizontal parallax, and the
  3D effect will vanish if they are turned sideways.  Their horizontal
  parallax depends upon their ability to preserve horizontal spatial phase
  of the illuminating light source.  It's like looking into a curved,
  slit-shaped mirror.  We see a virtual image of the illuminating source,
  and since the illuminator is a point source, we see a glowing dot which
  floats either behind or before the plastic surface.


((((((((((((((((((((( ( (  (   (    (O)    )   )  ) ) )))))))))))))))))))))
William J. Beaty                                  SCIENCE HOBBYIST website
billb@eskimo.com                                  www.eskimo.com/~billb
EE/programmer/sci-exhibits          science projects, tesla, weird science
Seattle, WA   206-781-3320          freenrg-L taoshum-L vortex-L webhead-L
