OTHER INSTANCES OF THE NATURALLY-OCCRRING HOLOGRAM EFFECT   
(c)1996 William Beaty

   Once you become "sensitized" to the hologram effect, you start
   seeing it everywhere.  It gets to be a pain, because soon you
   won't be able to NOT see it!   ;)

When vinyl record albums or CDs are illuminated by a small light source, a
3D stripe of light is seen.  Go outside in the sun, hold the disk at waist
height while facing the sun, look down at the disk and tilt it back and
forth until you see a bright stripe of light on the disk.  Notice that the
stripe isn't really *on* the disk surface, but instead seems to tilt down
into the surface of the plastic, in 3D. 

Brushed metal knobs on audio equipment display radial stripes of light, as
do brushed metal wheel covers on cars.  When illuminated at the proper
angle, these stripes will appear 3D.  One part of the stripe floats within
the surface, the other part juts out into space.  The concentric
circle-scratches form a hologram of a tilted bright line.

Observing the windshield of a car driving at night, streetlights shine
through the fine concentric windshield wiper scratches on the windshield.  
They create bright stripes which extend in 3D from the center of the wiper
pivot to the distant streetlight.

The "eye" of "cat's-eye" gemstones, where the effect is called Chatoyancy

On spools of wire, fishline or transparent thread, as well as on brushed 
metal cylinders.  The optical highlights seem to exist deep within the 
surface.

On the back of large silicon IC wafers, the diamond saw marks create
holograms of lines.  The images seem to exist deep within the surface.

The abrasion-hologram effect causes the highlights in these materials seem
to extend much deeper than the thickness of the material:

  - thin Mother-of-pearl, and mother-of-pearl paint
  - Polished 'burl' wood
  - 'pearlescent' metal-flake swirl paint
  - large stainless steel restaurant equipment in burger joints.
  - straight, slightly-wavy hair (those glowing 'deep' highlights)
  - Moire' silk

3D effects are intentionally produced on steel surfaces through use of a
wire-brush power tool.  The larger the diameter of the brush, the deeper
will be the apparent highlights. 

Automobile tail-lights reflected on a wet highway create red streaks which 
seem to spear downwards into the black depths of the road.

At night, the distant lights on the shore of a slightly wind-rippled lake 
create shafts of light that seem to extend downwards to infinity.

Ridges of fresnel lenses create bright 3D stripes.  Some overhead projectors 
create a bright spear of light which starts at the center of the lens and 
extends downwards.

The reflection of the setting or rising sun or moon on the ocean appears
as a bright stripe which extends vertically downwards into the water. 

In store display windows, chrome window blinds with tracklights on the
ceiling can create bright stripe reflections which sweep diagonally
downwards in 3D. 

Smeared, greasy fingerprints on dark polished surfaces create small C-shaped 
highlights.  These are holograms of your finger pad.  The complete
hologram is destroyed as your finger moves across the plastic, leaving
only a hologram of the trailing edge of the finger pad, hence the "C"
shape.

Old, heavily-scratched plexiglas when held in the sun and tilted to
various angles will show all kinds of patterns in depth.  These are
accidental holograms of the surface of whatever object created the
scratches. 

"Pillars of light" weather phenomena caused by ice crystal plates which fall 
with faces oriented parallel to the earth.  Each "pillar" seems to extend 
upwards in 3D from ground-based light sources (streetlights, etc.,) up to
the zenith.

And of course, car-hood holograms of hands, buffing tools, gritty rag
patterns, lambskin polishing mits, etc.
