Holography without Lasers: Hand-drawn Holograms [SCIENCE HOBBYIST] 

 UP | 

 SCI. PROJs | 

 GOOD STUFF | 

 NEW STUFF | 

 SEARCH 

 Google: 

Try some OPTICS 

 SURPLUS 

 "ABRASION HOLOGRAPHY" 
 HAND-DRAWN HOLOGRAMS 
 (c)1995 William J. Beaty 

A GALLERY OF VARIOUS HOLOGRAM TECHNIQUES

 Holograms 
Drawn by Hand 

Giant-fringe holography? nondiffractive holograms? single-fringe
holograms? scratch holograms? sandpaper holograms?
abrasion holograms? 
scratch-o-grams? holosketches? wire-brush holograms? car-hood holograms? 
phonograph holograms? incoherent holography? Aha: 
chatoyant holography!

 Invited paper, Electronic Imaging 2003 
 FAQ (fabrication hints)
 | Other instances 
 | Not true holograms? 

 I've stumbled across a technique for drawing holograms directly upon a
plastic plate by hand.
It sounds impossible, but I've been sitting on the
livingroom sofa making holographic images of floating polyhedra, words, 3D
starfields, opaque objects, etc. No laser, no isolation table, no
darkroom, no expensive film plates. This takes nothing more than a
compass and some scraps of plexiglas. Too cool, if I say so myself! 

There's an interesting story behind this technique, but first, the instructions. 

Obtain a small piece of acrylic plastic and a good, non-wobbly set of
"dividers" (a compass with two points.) I used a $10 compass from an art
supply store and replaced the pencil lead with the supplied metal point. 
The compass must be the type with an adjusting screw to set the spacing of
the points. Or, you can use a 4-in. piece of wood with a couple of
finishing nails driven through it to form a pair of points. For the 
plastic, a CDROM 'jewel case' works fine.

Next, use a marker to draw a simple pattern such as the letter "V" near
the lower edge of the plate. This will be the image that we'll encode
onto the surface. Draw your "V" less than 1 in. tall (2cm). Set the 
spacing of the compass points to a couple of inches. Place one point on 
the tip
of the small "V" at the bottom of the plate, and *gently* drag the other
point lightly across the plastic so you make an arc-shaped scratch that
looks something like the figure below.
This is your first scratch. It helps to tilt the compass so the point
trails across the surface and does not dig in or chatter. The scratch
should be easily visible, but not extremely deep.

The scratch should be dark and polished, not white and dusty. It should
show a small highlight when viewed in sunlight or under a pointsource
illuminator such as a small, clear light bulb. Now, while keeping the
dividers at exactly the same spacing, place the point at a different place
on the little "V" and use the other point to make a single circular
scratch as before. Do this again and again, ten times or more, each time
placing the point on a different spot on the little "V". When completed,
the overlapping arc-shaped scratches should look like you've swept a bit
of sandpaper across the top of the plastic plate. The little letter "V"
should be full of holes made by the other point of the compass. 
[ Detailed Instructions ]

To view the resulting hologram image, observe the scratches in sunlight. 
If your plate is transparent it helps to place something black behind it,
or to paint the rear surface dark for contrast. While holding the plate
chest-high with the little "V" towards your body, rotate yourself around
so you face the sun, tilt the plate up and down, and look at the
scratches. At a certain angle you will see a moving highlight in the
scratches. It will look like a collection of little stars, a mini-
constellation in the shape of the letter "V". That's the hologram. If
you go back and add more and more scratches in between the ones you
already made, eventually your letter "V" hologram will look like solid
white lines rather than rows of stars.

When viewed with both eyes open, the "V" seems to float deep within the
plastic. Its virtual depth is determined by the compass: if the spacing
of the points was set to 1 in., the image appears 1 in. below the plastic
surface. You can also hold the plate upside down, with the scratches at
the edge of the plate towards your body, and the holographic image will
float in space above the plate.

 "Research is to see what everybody else has seen, and to think what
 nobody else has thought." - Albert Szent-Gyoergi 

 How do they work? (Invited paper, "Imaging 2003," SPIE) 
 Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) 
 MORE HINTS FOR MAKING/VIEWING 
 Scratch-holo Video Archive (youtube playlist) 
 Email discussion 1995 
 Links 
 But are these really holograms? 

 ( stereo pair, crosseye technique)

Several hologram 
plates. 
 (Obviously you cannot see the 3D effect in this flat photograph.)

Depending on the tilt of the plate with respect to the sun, you might
accidentally discover the "pseudoscopic" image of the "V," and it may
appear to float *above* the surface of the plastic. Tilt the plate to
bring the far edge up and towards you and you'll then find the
"orthoscopic" image floating deep within the plate.

If you had inscribed your entire name on the plastic, you'd now be seeing
it down there within the surface. (hint hint!) It's also possible to draw
complicated 3D objects by varying the compass spacing as you slowly draw
glowing lines one point at a time. The distance between the compass
points controls the depth of the hologram-dots you are making. I've been
drawing cubes, pyramids, and holes with glowing stars at the bottom. As
with conventional holograms, opacity effects can be achieved by
controlling the location of the endpoints of the scratches. And many
other sophisticated effects produced by conventional rainbow holography
can be duplicated in black plastic and scratch patterns.

 CHANCE FAVORS THE *CURIOUS,PLAYFUL* MIND 

All this all started while I was walking along the rows of cars in the
parking lot at work. I noticed this one black station wagon hood that had
a number of glowing highlights created by the sunlight. Typical science
hobbyist response: I stopped and began playing with them. I was moving my
head back and forth in order to make them slide around, when I noticed
that some of the highlights seemed to exist a few inches WITHIN the
surface of the car hood. I've long been interested in stereo images, so I
started examining these "deep" highlights in detail. Some of the larger
ones had an interesting structure, appearing as an 8 in. circular blotch
of light with a radial pattern of filaments and a mottled central area. 
All these highlight-patterns seemed identical, and were floating at
various depths within the car hood. 

Gritty car hood after careful "polishing" with a dry paper towel. 

 The handprints in the above photo might appear to be on the surface
 of the hood, but in real life they look holographic and seem to
 float about one foot deep within the surface of the hood. Appears
 like white fishes in a dark pond.

With a start I suddenly I realized what I was seeing. It was incredible: 
each highlight was in the shape of a wool polishing mit, with matted
fibers in the center surrounded by outwards-pointing wooly filaments! The
matted part was in the shape of a human hand! There were several of them
floating at various depths all over the car hood, with some of them even
floating in space *above* the hood. They had been invisible to me, but
then they weren't. 

 Science is perception! 

It wasn't long before I had half the optosensor engineering department out 
there acting like fools, moving their heads back and forth in front of 
this black station wagon. I searched through the rest of the sunlit 
parking lot and found several other cars with glowing distorted handprints 
deep within various surfaces. Once you realized they were handprints, the 
shape was unmistakable. 

 Closeup of handprint pattern, 6" virtual depth 

I proposed several crude theories to explain the phenomena, as well as
numerous hoaxes which could be done via Elvis-shaped polishing mitts to
encode miraculous images onto everyday objects. (The Hood of Turin?) It
was about a week before I figured out what was really going on. The
images were naturally-occurring holograms. The owner of the car had
obviously polished the hood with a dirty lambswool mitt, and the millions 
of
particles of grit in the mitt traced out millions of nearly-parallel
scratches in the black paint. The particular hand motion had created a
geometry of abrasion patterns which turn out to be nearly identical to the
interference patterns which make up those embossed-foil whitelight
Benton rainbow holograms.

 But there was something extremely weird going on here (I mean even 
more weird than hood scratches causing images!) These scratches have 
random spacing. They seemed to be functioning as holograms without the 
benefit of optical interference. This is impossible of course, since 
holography is completely based upon interference effects. However, the 
"Rainbow" hologram technique invented by Benton at MIT allows a hologram 
to function regardless of illumination frequency. The optical bench for 
the classic single-stage "Rainbow" holography setup includes a horizontal 
slit which produces relatively large horizontal swatches of fine-line 
interference patterns on the film (figure A above.) The recorded 
interference pattern encodes the depth information as variations in 
orientation of the fringes across the stripe. In Benton's Rainbow 
Holograms, only the fringe orientation is important. The fringe 
spacing (wavelength) is not. Once I was clued in by the existence of the 
car-hood holograms, I realized that I could interpret Benton's white-light 
technique as allowing holograms to function regardless of *fringe 
spacing.* Frequency-independence leads to size-independence of fringes, 
figure B above. Nobody seems to realize that a Rainbow Hologram will 
still function even when the spacing of its fringes was made random. Or 
even if it were to be made immensely large. 

 (See: Are they *really* holograms? , and
 Scratch-holography FAQ )

No one seems to realize that the well-known "Rainbow Hologram" technique
can also let you produce holograms which are not based on optical
interference at all. This makes it possible for you to create holograms
where the "interference fringes" are so large that they are easily seen
by the naked eye; where they are more like the grooves of an LP record
than like the patterns on a CDROM. And if the arrays of hyperbolic
interference fringes in a conventional Rainbow Hologram are replaced by
widely-spaced, hand-ruled scratches on a plastic plate, it becomes
possible to draw complicated holographic images directly by hand with a
sharp tool. Neolithic holography! Multiple parallel scratches aren't 
necessarily required, and
circles can replace the hyperbolae. The circular-scratch technique is
able to produce holographic images, and sweeping circular motions of
gritty polishing mits can produce these holograms accidentally. 

 Hand-drawn cube hologram 
 (STEREO PAIR, for crosseyed viewing) 

Has anyone heard of this trick before? I've yet to find it mentioned in
any (1995) holography article or text. It's starting to look like this is
something new...

 (AHA! Someone clued me in. A 1992 paper by Plummer & Gardner
(ref. below) does detail 
just such a discovery. The authors completely analyse the math behind
the reflections made by arrays of 
circular scratches produced by the orbits of a lapping tool on a metal 
mirror. -Bill B., 10/23/95 

Noah Spurrier points out a SciAm article on phonograph record optics from
1989. And Nils Abramson points out a predecessor of
the curved-scratch technique from 1930!) 

Now I hear that the late Gabriel Liebermann was making scratch-holograms 
with an NC-machine back in 1981! See an article on his piece called " World 
Brain "

The scratch-hologram technique might be very useful in reducing the amount
of data required for computer-generated holography. The size independence
characteristic suggests that billboard-sized holograms wouldn't be
impossible to build. Also, an incoherent-light holo-camera is feasible: 
if an object is illuminated with structured light resembling a dense
random starfield and is photographed at 2f distance by a camera having a
curved slit-aperature over its lens, and if the resulting plate is used
to etch fine lines onto a metal or plastic surface, the result will be a
photographically produced "scratch hologram" of the original object.

Conventional Rainbow Embossed holograms do trounce it badly in the
brightness and sharpness catagories, but conventional techniques won't let
you create a "physics educational" hologram with giant interference 
fringes 
easily viewed with the unaided eye. And conventional holography won't let
you sit by the side of a lake in Vermont with plexi and dividers, drawing
holographic virtual images of floating polyhedra by hand. 

- Bill Beaty 

P.S. The required tools are so simple that ancient peoples could have
drawn these images in hardened sooty resin pools with wooden tools, had
they but known the trick. Several ancient civilizations were heavily into
geometry. I wonder if any artifacts exist in storage somewhere which
appear to have some 'sandpaper marks' on their polished surfaces... ;)

LOOKING FOR BOOKS? Try searching
 amazon.com : 

 (try "holography" too) 

REFERENCES 

Matthew Brand, "Specular Holography," Applied Optics V50 #25 pp5042-5046 (2011) 

Nils Abramson, "Incoherent Holography" Proc. 
SPIE Vol. 4149, pp153-164, Holography 2000, Tung H. Jeong; Werner K. Sobotka; Eds.

W. Plummer & L. Gardner, "A mechanically generated hologram?"

Applied Optics, V.31 No.31, pp. 6585-6588 (Nov 1992) 

 Hans Weil, 1930s work 

E. Garfield, Essays of an Information Scientist, V5 pp348-354 1981-82
 ISI's 
"World Brain" by the late Gabriel Liebermann: The World's First Holographic 
Engraving (3ft x 4ft scribed aluminum), also 
 Liebermann's site 
and machine drawings 

Jearl Walker, WHAT DO PHONOGRAPH RECORDS HAVE IN COMMON WITH WINDSHIELD
WIPERS? The Amateur Scientist, Scientific American. July 1989 Vol261 No1. 
pp106-109

"A Binocular Illusion" by Paul Kirkpatrick in American Journal of Physics.
Vol. 22, No 7. Page 492. October 1954.

"Reflections on a gramophone record" by J.B. Lott in Mathematical 
Gazette.
Vol. 47, No. 360. Pages 113-118. May 1963.

F. S. Yu, A. Tal, H. Chen, Optical Engineering, Vol.19 No.5, 
 pp. 666-678, "One-step rainbow holography: recent development
 and application."

W. Siemens-Wapniarski, M. Givens, Applied Optics, March 1968, 
vol 7 no 3, p535 "Experimental Production of Synthetic Holograms." 

H. Caulfield, National Geographic, Vol.165, No.3, p. 372 

 LINKS 

 Hand-drawn Hologram Frequently-asked Questions 
 Email discussion 
 Other occurrences of "scratch holograms"
 It's not holographic? 

 Light Drawings , James Minden
 Scratch-Holo Video Archive (youtube playlist)
 Computational Highlight Holography 2010 Regg et.al.
 blog.sina.com 

Augier & Sanchez: scratches w/CO2 laser PDF (jnl article)
 How To Holo (.jp) 
, with video 
 Scratch-holo software 
 A scratch-holo printer project 
, see the video 
 Holograf? sin l?er 
 CNC Drag-engraving a hologram 
 Holowiki: scratch-o-gram 
 Instructables: Dremel scratch-holo scriber 
 Adam's photo gallery of scratch-holos on 
 Holog forum 
 Making CG holograms w/standard printers 

Laser Focus World covered scratch-holos in 3/2003
 TLC's show While you were Out 
had a scratch-holo in Thinking man's room (see the "after" version)
 " World Brain ", scratch-holos in 1980
 Discussion of scratch-holograms on metafilter 
 John Gusty's page on old-master painting techniques
 Engine Turning 
 Integraf , laser-pointer holograms, Russian film plates
 3D Hacker 
 3D Links 
 Webseum holography links page
 "Virtual Window" video display (Jesse E.)
 Holo Hardcopy , S. McGrew, NLI
 Hologram history 
 3DVG anomalous stereopsis

 SOME HOLOGRAM HOBBYISTS 

 Holography Forum 
 Laser pointer Holograms 
 Holography in Norway! 
 Holografie (Deutch)
 3Dimagery , make your own holograms
 DeFreitas' Webseum (excellent!)
 SAS: Amateur Holography 
 LASER 
Laser Arts Soc. for Edu. & Research
 Practical Holography , online book

Buy these books at AMAZON.COM: 

Homemade (laser) Holograms : The Complete Guide to Inexpensive, Do-It-Yourself Holography 

The Complete Book of Holograms : How They Work and How to Make Them 

Holography Handbook : Making Holograms the Easy Way 

 Practical Holography 

ALSO: the hand-drawn hologram project now appears in: 

 Laser Focus World , March 2003

TLC's show While you were Out 
had a scratch-holo in Thinking man's room (see the "after" version)

 Helix 
#65, April/May '99

 Yesmag 
Science Magazine, #9, Spring '98 p25

...and was featured in an old episode of "The Big Bang", a children's
science TV show in the UK. 

Want books? Try searching

amazon.com : 

 (try " 
science experiment project " too) 

 /amateur/holo1.html 
Created and maintained by Bill Beaty . Mail me at: 
 .