Membership Services 

 SAS Home Page /
 Comment /
 Join /
 Get Involved /
 Local Chapters /
 Research Projects /
 SAS Organization /
 SAS Updates /
 Electronic Forum /
 Supply Bureau /
 Technical Illustrations /
 Swap Meet /
 Science Groups /
 Scientific American 

 MEMBERSHIP SERVICES 

 JOIN THE FASCINATING WORLD 
 OF RESEARCH SCIENTISTS 

Joining the Society for Amateur Scientists (a non-profit 501(c)(3) research organization) will enable you to contribute directly to humanity's understanding of the natural world. You can join on-line!

 BENEFITS OF MEMBERSHIP 

 CONTRIBUTOR $35 
(Family $50) 

The Contributor level is our basic level of membership. Contributing members get all of the following benefits:

 Receive our members-only newsletter-- Amateur Scientists' Bulletin. The Bulletin will help you get the most out of your membership. 
 Advertise in the Bulletin's "Swap Meet" section for free. 
 Access the Electronic Forum-- our easy Internet communications linking professional and amateur scientists around the world. 
 Join in our International Science Projects-- Gain hands-on experience and develop your own research skills in these professionally designed front-line research programs. 
 Get Mentor Assistance-- For some projects we can arrange personal, one-on-one, expert advice from experienced scientists on conducting research and getting papers through the referee process. 
 Attend Stimulating Science Lectures. 
 Have research papers reviewed by our experts before submitting them for publication. 
 Fellowship with like-minded people. 

We're sorry, but since you get direct benefits for your money, IRS rules do not allow you to deduct the basic membership fee. 
 Join at the Contributor Level 

 HIGHER LEVELS OF SUPPORT 
If you feel that SAS is worthy of your support, we strongly urge you to get involved at a higher level of membership. Your additional contribution will directly assist us at bringing the process, promise and power of science to everyone.

Without the additional support. Every penny beyond the basic membership fee is 100 percent tax deductible. 

 FRIEND $50 
 Join at the Friend Level 

 CURIE $100 
 Join at the Curie Level 

 NOBEL $250 
 Join at the Nobel Level 

 EINSTEIN $500 
 Join at the Einstein Level 

 BENEFACTOR $1,000 
 Join at the Benefactor Level 

 Society for Amateur Scientists 
 4951 D Clairemont Square Suite 179, San Diego, CA 92117 
Phone/Fax: (619) 239-8807 Info Requests (Outside 619 area code): (800) 873-8767 Internet: info@sas.org