Neodymium supermagnets: about spheres 

 TOP | 

 MAIN MAGNETS PAGE | 

 GOOD STUFF | 

 NEW STUFF | 

 SEARCH 

 ABOUT SPHERICAL SUPERMAGNETS 
 (c)2004 William Beaty 

 Uncle Al wrote in message news: ...

> Why would one fabricate a rare earth dipole magnet as sphere? 

 1.5" supermagnet sphere 
 http://www.houseofscience.com/is/mag/mag/mag.html 

No earthly reason. But the guys at wondermagnet.com had some small 
spheres made up.

They sold. You can form them into little chains. Then they started
selling large 3/4 inch supermagnet spheres. A discovery! While two 
cylindrical 0.75" supermagnets, if they slam together, will grab 
the edges of finger tips and leave blood blisters, the spheres tend 
to push the flesh out of the way as they come together. Also, two 
cylinders will spall off little chips which travel at eye-piercing 
velocity, while the spheres do this only rarely. Sometimes the 
cylinder magnets even shatter. The spheres never do (not so far
as I've experienced, and I have lots them here.) 

So now an unskilled adult can play with the larger supermagnets 
without experiencing unexpected violent pain. Don't worry, it 
still takes plenty of skill to handle the 1.5" spheres. Even the 
experts have scars and stitches. Don't leave them out on your desk, 
or you'll be performing some inadvertent Selection upon curious 
passersby. Plus erasing all their credit card stripes. At work
I leave my big ones stuck to a big nitrogen cylinder chained to the wall. 
Some people can't even figure out how to pull them loose.

Then the guy at http://www.engconcepts.net/ started selling 3/8" supermagnet
beads at very low quantity prices (like $.30 each.)

The things are VERY COOL in quantity. Long chains of them act 
like biology: rings will merge or peel apart like bacterial plasmids. 
You can spiral the chains up to make spiral-phase nanotubes or tobacco
mosaic viruses. Make a ring-triangle of 3 beads, then roll a 4th towards 
it. The ring eats the bead, becoming a square. Chemical reaction?
Molecular self-assembly? Roll a 5th in, and the ring snaps it up, 
becoming a pentagon. Add another, and sometimes it just sticks to the
outside. The surface energy of your 2D molecule is too low. It needs
to be highly stressed. So make a long linear chain, stick an extra magnet 
bead to the side, then pull on the chain. The chain eats the bead, 
becoming longer. Repeat!

Take 60 beads, make twelve rings of 5 magnets each, then carefully merge
them into a pseudo-buckyball (4 bonds per atom, with squares instead of
hexagons! Smaller than a true buckyball.) Note that the sense/antisense
north-souch ring polarity of the pentagons cannot be ignored (you can make
chiral buckyballs, some with CW surface polarity, some with CCW.) 
Someone needs to make some beads with quadrupole magnetization rather than
dipole, so a *true* buckyball can easily be made. (You can still make a
true buckyball using 60 steel balls with lots of short supermagnet rods
connecting them. But it's a big pain when compared to a buckyball made
all of spheres.) 

After a couple of hours I was able to simulate a buckyball origin: 
two hemispheres of 30 magnets each, which when brought together will 
suddenly knit up into the 'buckyball' (and entrap any ions which happen 
to get between 'em. Always wondered how that occurred.)

The girlfriend likes chains of alternating gold and black beads. Make nice
looking spiral-wrap bracelets... *or* disassemble and then play with
dipole-chain pseudo-biomolecules when bored at work. (Hmmm. Reassemble
them with Morse Code patterns, to attract amateur radio nerds ?!!) 

> It's a great price for the big one! The obvious thing to do is to order 
> two and see how the pair is shipped. Kinda hard to envision a "keeper" 
> to lessen field decay/time.

Put them in a thick styrofoam box. The fields at the box surface are
low. Then wrap the box in thin iron sheets. The iron doesn't
saturate. Or, if you bought a bunch of the things, they can be
shipped formed into a ring where the field is internal to the ring 
and only 'leakage' fields escape. A single enormous magnet is
harder to ship. Two of them can be rotated oppositely to mostly
eliminate the distant dipole field.

 "House of science" supermagnets (note the 1.5" sphere) 
 http://www.houseofscience.com/is/mag/mag/mag.html 

 "Force field" supermagnets 
 http://www.wondermagnet.com 

 "Mr. George" supermagnets 
 http://www.engconcepts.net/ 

Want books? Try searching 

amazon.com : 

 (try "science fair" too) 

Help Support the Science Club ,
 use the above form to order books. 
(We make a few $$ on any books ordered via these links.) 

Created and maintained by Bill Beaty . Mail me at: billb@eskimo.com .

If you are using Lynx, type "c" to email . 
Best if viewed with ANY Browser.