SCIENCE HOBBYIST: Ten dollar Infrared Goggles 

 BACK 

 GOOD STUFF 

 NEW STUFF 

 SEARCH 

 PYKRETE 
 Making the Ice which does not Melt 
2003 Bill Beaty 

During World War II a "mad inventor" by the name of Geoffrey Pyke invented
an interesting substance. It was part ice, part air, and part sawdust. 
It was light and strong (as strong as concrete), and it was a fairly good
thermal insulator. In other words, it was super-strong ice which melted
only verrrrrrry slooooooowly. Blocks of it would survive an entire
summer. It could be sprayed with supercooling nozzles onto forms where it
hardened in minutes. 

Pykrete was a secret weapon. The British intended to build really
gigantic aircraft carriers of the stuff. Just make your hull thick enough
and any torpedo damage will have no effect. If your ship is made of
super-ice rather than steel, you could build mile-long floating islands. 
For a ship, add some hoses used as refrigeration coils to keep it from
melting at all. Unfortunately the war ended before any major use was
made, and today such a large slow target so far from populated areas just
crys out for a small nuke bomb. Only one small test-ship was ever built.
See http://www.combinedops.com/Pykrete.htm 

I always wanted to make some Pykrete to play with. Unfortunately there's
a problem. It takes forever to melt, but it takes just as long to freeze! 
Mr. Pyke apparently intended to make Pykrete by injecting the water slurry
through cryo-nozzles which would supercool the mixture. The liquid would
be far below 0C, and when sprayed into molds it would harden immediately.

Making a block of Pykerete is not a simple proposition! I never had the 
ambition to mess with the idea.

However, when discussing this on 
The Straight Dope and Metafilter forums I
noticed a neat trick. (I haven't tested it, so I don't know if it will
work.) Don't supercool anything. Instead take a cue from nature: big
piles of snow. Big piles of snow melt very slowly. The compressed snow
is a thermal insulator (like styrofoam made of ice.) If you wanted to
make some compressed snow by freezing some water-foam, it would take
forever. The outer layers would insulate the still-liquid interior of
your ice block.

So instead, just make some snow and then pound it down into a compressed 
block. It's part water, part air. Styrofoam made of ice.

THAT'S IT! The same thing should apply to Pykrete. 

Make a piston and 
cylinder out of a pipe and a hunk of aluminum. Make 
some snow (or finely shaved ice), and 
mix it thoroughly with the correct amount of very fine sawdust. Put it in 
the pipe and use the piston to hammer it down to form a solid block. 
Instant Pykrete!

 A radio play: Habbakuk 

 Pyke's floating island (14% wood pulp)

 Shooting at pykrete 

Eccentric Lives And Peculiar Notions 

Practical joke: while it's snowing, blow some wood flour continuously onto
the snow. (Hmmm, does wheat flour work?) As it piles up, it will form
Pykrete. That pile of "snow" might still be in your yard in august!

/amateur/pykrete.html 
Created and maintained by 
 Bill Beaty . Mail me at: 

billb@eskimo.com .

If you are using Lynx, type "c" to email.