
From billbeskimo.com Tue Jun 23 09:42:08 1998
Date: Mon, 22 Jun 1998 13:30:49 -0700 (PDT)
From: William Beaty <billbeskimo.com>
Reply-To: freenrg-l@eskimo.com
To: "'freenrg-l@eskimo.com'" <freenrg-l@eskimo.com>
Subject: Re: Ring laser gyro
Resent-Date: Mon, 22 Jun 1998 13:30:49 -0700
Resent-From: freenrg-l@eskimo.com

On Sun, 21 Jun 1998, Kyle R. Mcallister wrote:

> Hello all:
> 
> Anyone here know how I can set up a ring laser gyro?

I've never tried it, but here's what I would do.  First rig up a photocell
and amplifier so you can hear the laser beat frequenciess from physical
motion.  This is pretty easy: amplify the output from a small photocell
and apply it to loudspeakers, shine the laser at the photocell, then turn
the photocell so the reflected beam goes back into the laser.  Hold
everything very still, and then push very slightly on the surface where
the laser and photocell are resting.  You will hear loud squeals and
chirps (they sound much like the sounds of tuning a shortware radio past
certain CW stations.)  This occurs because the distance between the laser
and the photocell is changing, and as it changes it causes a linear
interference pattern to move along the laser beam.  Each "click" of the
squealing sound is one node or antinode of the interference pattern going
past the photocell.

Having accomplished this, you'll know how much audio amplification is
required in order to hear the beat frequencies in the light.  

Now for the gyro.  Shine the laser on the end of a pair of single fiber
optical fibers each a couple of feet long.  Wrap the two fibers around a
circle with each fiber going in the opposite direction (one wraps CCW, the
other wraps CW).  Aim the far ends of the fibers at your photocell so the
laser light combines.  If anything should now alter the "optical length"
of the fibers, you should hear a squeal from your loudspeaker.  Extremely
slow rotation of the entire laser/fibers/photocell assembly should create
a loud squeal. 

I would first try all of the above with a HeNe laser.  Laser pointers have
terrible coherence.  If one fiber was a tiny bit longer than the other,
the whole thing might fail to work if a Laser pointer is used, while it
might be fine if a HeNe tube-laser is used.

In the above, I am unsure of the size of the interference fringes which
the fibers will project onto the photocell.  If several fringes are on the
surface of the photocell at one time, then the sound of moving fringes
will be very low in amplitude.  Perhaps you'll have to glue the fibers
parallel to each other so their ends are very very close, and then hold
them at quite a distance from the photocell.  Perhaps use a lens near the
fiber ends to beam the spreading light towards the photocell.  All this is
intended to set up a "double slit diffraction" system where the
light-emitting ends of the optical fibers are the "slits".  The
diffraction pattern projected onto the photocell should be large enough
that just one "fringe" hits the photocell at a time.  The photocell
probably needs to be masked, so that it has a "slit" shape which can grab
one single fringe of the diffraction pattern.  When the entire assembly is
rotated, the fringe pattern will zoom wildly across the photocell, and a
high-freq signal will come out of the loudspeaker.

The end result is a sort of "digital potentiometer" device which has many
"clicks" per rotation.  If you managed to count the number of clicks
digitally (and also detect the direction of motion of the dirifting
interference pattern?) then you'll have a compass which can detect
incredibly tiny rotary motions, like hundred thousandths of a degree.

The down side: I hear that these things are sensitive to fiber motion and
fiber thermal expansion.  Simply walking on the floor near the lab bench
would cause squealing sounds in the output.  Once you had it working,
you'd want to cast the fibers into solid plastic, and imbed the plastic
block inside a very thick layer of styrofoam (or perhaps make a little one
which could fit inside a thermos bottle. 

Without thermal protection, I bet the fibers would respond to small
amounts of IR radiation.  While listening to the loudspeaker output, maybe
you can wave your warm hands near the bare fibers and make them squeal. 
Is this the laser-powered relativistic thermosensitive version of the
Theremin?  :) 

((((((((((((((((((((( ( (  (   (    (O)    )   )  ) ) )))))))))))))))))))))
William J. Beaty                                  SCIENCE HOBBYIST website
billbeskimo.com                                  amasci.com
EE/programmer/sci-exhibits          science projects, tesla, weird science
Seattle, WA   206-762-3818          freenrg-L taoshum-L vortex-L webhead-L
