ORIENTATION OF ICE CRYSTALS IN THE ELECTRIC FIELD OF A THUNDERSTORM
Vonnegut B,  WEATHER v20, no.10, pp310-312 (1965)
doi: 10.1002/j.1477-8696.1965.tb02740.x

An interesting and unusual optical phenomenon associated with a thunder- 
cloud is reported and discussed by Hale(1950), Ludlam(1950), and 
Lacy(1950).  Early in the afternoon a thundercloud viewed from the north 
was observed to form a 'bright streamer apparently of cloud projecting 
northwards from the anvil.' This streamer repeatedly built up slowly and 
then suddenly disappeared apparently at the same time as a lightning 
discharge took place.  When I recently came across the report of these 
observations, I was struck by their similarity to an interesting 
electrical phenomenon that can readily be demonstrated in the laboratory 
using the elegant cold-box technique devised by Schaefer(1946). It appears 
worth describing this possible laboratory analogue to the thunderstorm 
phenomenon for it adds yet another possible interpretation to those that 
have already been suggested by Ludlam and Lacy.

If a supercooled cloud in a Schaefer cold-box is seeded (either with dry 
ice or silver iodide) and illuminated with a beam of light, it can be 
observed that the ice crystals reflect the light like little mirrors.  As 
the ice crystal platelets slowly fall, they all become orientated with 
their princepal axes in the vertical direction so that the light is 
reflected from their horizontal surfaqces and the cloud appears quite 
bright in the region where the light is reflected toward the observer 
(see Fig. 1).  This phenomenon is apparently identical with the sun pillar 
and sun reflections sometimes observed in the atmosphere (Coons and Gunn 
1951).

If one performs the experiment of creating a strong electric field in the
ice-crystal cloud by the introduction of an electrically-charged object
such as an ebonite rod, it will be observed that the position where the
cloud appears bright because of reflections from the ice crystals can be
made to change and move about by changing the position of the electrified
object.

The electric field apparently causes this effect because it induces
electrical dipoles in the ice crystals giving rise to forces that tilt
them as is illustrated in Fig. 2.

According to the descriptions of Hale and Lacy, ice crystals were present
and it appears possible that the unusual optical effects that they
observed might have been caused by changes in the orientation of ice
crystals produced by the strong electric field of the thundercloud.

[Fig. 1]

[Fig. 2]

