The UNIX Guide to Defenestration - Review 

 Stop Whining and Repent 

 God is calling the people of America to repentance 

 The UNIX Guide to Defenestration - Review 

 Basic Book information 

 Title The UNIX Guide to Defenestration 
 Author Murph P. Murphy 
 Rating 7/10 
 Reviewer johnnyb 
 ISBN 0-9689004-0-2 
 Pages 238 

 Review 

If you're like me and you stare in wonder at the constant failure of many organization's IT departments, The UNIX Guide to Defenestration does an excellent job explaining the problem, and, to a lesser extent, the solution.

 The UNIX Guide is a brutally honest look at how IT departments function. Among the issues, it probes:

 The CIO's conflict - How a CIO's status is proportional to the size of his staff and his budget. However, this leads to making technology choices that increase staff and budget size, rather than those that use them efficiently. 
 Hidden costs of an organization - how the shift to fat client computing is hurting organizations everywhere 
 Manipulative People - How people such as unknowledgeable managers and salesmen can influence the CEO to continue in organizationally destructive technology decisions. 
 Delusional Market - How users are not able to see how much money they are spending on inadequate solutions. 

Murphy does an excellent job at describing the problem in full detail using real-life numbers and case studies. The realism in this book is remarkable, especially from a been-there done-that perspective. Usually, after presenting the numbers, you have to pause to think, "how could a rational person choose otherwise?" Of course, that's what many of us have been thinking all along.

While the book may seem on the surface to be a book about replacing one technology for another, it is really about replacing one culture for another. The focus is on replacing a culture that manages infrastructure with one that delivers better and better solutions to help a company increase it's profits. Many companies simply manage their infrastructure by purchasing solutions that have to be watched. The UNIX culture is one where the core technology does not need to be watched, but instead the focus is on building solutions based on user needs.

Was this book perfect? No. Some of it's drawbacks include the lack of an editor (way, too, many, commas,), occasional detours to all-out Windows-bashing, and some sections not having a well-defined point. I think Murphy does not give Windows it's due technical credit, although most of his points were at least mostly valid.

All-in-all, it was a great book. It includes a username/password to the author's web site, where he keeps full-text PDF copies of his book, and has a forum for readers to talk back. Murphy is very responsive to comments and questions given on his site. It's a self-published book so you won't find it in stores, but it's only $30 including Fed-Ex shipping, which you can order through the author's site at http://www.winface.com/ .

 Go back