Okie Rumble XII, September 2008 

 Okie Rumble XII, September 2008 

 Click to go directly to the Trip There 
or the Okie Rumble itself. 
 Or just click any thumbnail image to enlarge it
in a new window. 

 The Trip There 
 New York State 

First stop on train: Croton-Harmon, NY, north of New York City 

Industrial area, south of Bear Mtn., NY 

Near Bear Mtn., NY 

Looking out the back of train 

Nice mountain view on west bank of Hudson River 

Pushups on the platform in Albany-Rensellaer, NY (try to do it at least once
per state)

Looking south from Albany-Rensellaer station 

I've got till 7:03 PM to take pictures around the station ;-) 

Looking north from Albany-Rensellaer station 

Looking west towards Albany proper 

 Indiana 

 The three previous trains had been halted in Albany due to
flooding in Illinois, Indiana, Ohio and western New York State due to
Hurricane Ike. We were warned that this train might be delayed as well if
the floodwaters had not receded yet. We got through, making good time, and
no flooding was visible until western Indiana, just southeast of Chicago. 

 Illinois 

Getting off the train in Chicago to transfer to the Texas Eagle 

Canal Street: Welcome to Chicago 

Heading for a Chicago CVS to get some Krazy Glue (which wasn't needed on the 
trip) 

Adams St., Chicago, looking east towards the drawbridge 

Waiting room at Chicago Union Station 

On the Texas Eagle, in Central Illinois 

Long stretches of flat cornfields along Route 66 in Illinois 

 At the Okie Rumble 
 Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 
 Throughout the whole trip, to, from and in Oklahoma, the weather was sunny 
and warm, with no rain. There was some morning cloudiness before arrival, but
it was great wrestling, biking and swimming weather throughout. 

At the hotel: room 212 in the Four Points near the airport 

Hotel pool (1 of 5) 

 (2 of 5) 

 (3 of 5) 

Ron modeling his unofficial Okie Rumble 2008 shirt (4 of 5) 

 (5 of 5) 

 In the Mat Rooms 

 Around the hotel(s) 

Hospitality area outside the mat rooms: sign up for mat time 
here 

Roughhousing off the mats 

Front reception desk at the Four Points 

Welcome to the Okie Rumble 

Weekend winding down: 
mat signup sheet and doodles at hospitality table 

Hospitality table with various useful things for wrestlers 

Match in progress at Mat Room B: note "meeting in progress" 
sign 

Large mat rooms mean no head or foot holes in the wall ;-) 

Mat Room A 

The two other meeting rooms at the hotel 

Water, mat tape and first-aid supplies are available at the hospitality 
table 

Putting out the pans after ordering a room service meal; the peas weren't too
good, but the other food was great 

Room at hotel with "no maid service needed, do not disturb" 
sign up 

After the mats were taken up on Sunday, went to the Habana Inn, the hotel 
where the Okie Rumble was held before 2007, and the outdoor sign would say
"Welcome Okie Rumble". Photo taken early Monday morning (6:32 AM) just after 
checking out and heading home.

 Previous Okie Rumble pages: 
 2000 | 
 2001 | 
 2002 | 
 2003 |
 2004 |
 2005 |
 2006 |
 2007 |
2008
 The Palaestra 

 -->

 Click
 here to send me
comments on this web page. 

 This site has been visited times
since May 3, 2001. 
 This page has been visited

 times since September 28, 2008. 

 nickz@eskimo.com 

Page created: September 28, 2008
Last modified: September 28, 2008