Coming Events 

 Home Minister 
 Sermon Services Religious Ed. 
 About Contact Welcoming 
 Links EUUC Bookstore 
 Annual Events | Affinity Groups 

 May 25-27 Silverton Camping Retreat 
 It's time for our annual getaway in the woods for Memorial Day Weekend. Join your fellow EUUC'ers at Camp Silverton,
 off the Mountain Loop Highway past Granite Falls, for an unstructured camping weekend. Eat, hike, sing around the
 campfire, toast marshmallows, throw rocks in the river. Kids, adults, everyone welcome. See your newsletter for
 complete details and sign-up form, or call Robin or Doug 

 May 19 Social Concerns Brunch 
 Proceeds from the brunch will benefit the children's room in the Interfaith Association's shelter for homeless
 families. We are also collecting games, puzzles, and art supplies to furnish the room. 

 June 2 Virtues Project 
 The vision of The Virtues Project is to serve humanity by having an empowering global impact on the moral and spiritual
 development of peoples 
 of all cultures, by helping them to remember who they really are and to live by their highest values. 
 Join Kathy and Michele on June 2 in RE 1 and 2 from 12 noon to 1 p.m. for a presentation on The Virtues Project.
 Snacks will be 
 provided. Contact Michele or Kathy for more information 

 June 9 Annual Year-End Salmon Bake 
 Don't forget to sign up for the Annual Salmon Bake after the service. Our planners need to know how many
 will attend in order to determine how much salmon to purchase. You will be asked to contribute a salad or a dessert
 plus $4 for each adult and $2 for each fish-eating juvinile, generally 
 thought to be one of age 6 to 12 years. 
 You can volunteer to help with this event by contacting us. 
 Jim and Janet 

 June 15 Wildflower Walk 
 Scott has generously agreed to lead our adventure, just like the other walks he offered at the auction.
 The donation is the same, too, at 
 $15 per person made out to EUUC. We'll meet in the church parking lot about 9 a.m. and return in the late afternoon.
 Contact Sherry 
 to make reservations 

 ANNUAL EVENTS 

 THE BIG BASH - Held every February 
 A party just for the grown-ups featuring a different ethnic theme each year. Food and music appropriate to the
 theme are provided. 
 CHOCOLATE SUNDAY - Third or Fourth Sunday in February 
 Remember your sweetheart at the chocolate "brunch". Bring a cake, cookies, candies or other goodies made
 of chocolate to share after the service. 
 AUCTION - Early in March 
 Our version of March Madness! There are sumptious dinners, picnics, boat rides, the use of vacation cabins, and
 many, many treasures to bid on. Dinner is served and drinks are available. 
 SILVERTON RETREAT - Memorial Day Weekend 
 An unstructured family camoing retreat to cabins inl the woods on the Mountain Loop Highway. There is no program,
 just an opportunity to talk, eat, hike, play games and hang out. 
 RUMMAGE SALE - First Weekend in May 
 Tons of good stuff at amszingly low prices! It's realy a huge multi-family garage sale where church members bring
 the best of their unwanted goodies.> 
 SUMMER PICNIC - Third or Fourth Sunday in August 
 A potluck picnic held on the church grounds with fellowship and games for young and old. 
 SEABECK CHURCH RETREAT - Seabeck Conference Center on Hood Canal, September 21, 22, 23 
 This is an annual event which provides an opportunity for church families to learn, reflect, read, and play in
 a beautifully wooded shoreline setting.. This year the program is built around the theme, "Your Time is Up....What's
 Next?" Imagine it's your last day on earth, what would you do? Who would you do it with? We'll explore what
 really matters, the impact of our lives, and our expectations and beliefs about what happens after death. 
 This year we will be joined by members from the Woodinvillle and South Whidby churchs, giving us a chance to
 get aquainted with those good folks. 
 NORTHWEST ARTISTS HOLIDAY SHOW - The First Weekend in November 
 An invitational show featuring artists and craftsmen from around the Pacific Northwest and specialty food products.
 The "Upstairs Gallery" includes a free buffet hors d'oeurve table. 
 Top 

 AFFINITY GROUPS 
 Most of these groups are formed around common interests. They are different from adult classes and activities
 in that they are generally small, ongoing, and meet throughout the year. The majority remain small to allow each
 member to feel comfortable in sharing thoughts and feelings. 
 BIKING | BRUNCH
 BUNCH | DINNER OUT | DREAM GROUPS | FAMILY OUTINGS | 
 FOLK DANCING 
 FRIDAY NIGHT AT THE MOVIES | HIKING | RECORDER 
 SACRED CIRCLE | SYMPOSIUM | 
 TUESDAY TOASTMASTERS | TRAVEL
 GROUP | WILD WOMEN 
 WOMAN'S SHARING CIRCLE 

 BIKING 
 Bicycling enthusiasts interested in easy, scenic rides, both urban and rural. 

 BRUNCH BUNCH 
 Meets on the2 nd and 4 th Sundays at 11:45 a. m. in the Stevens Hospital Cafeteria. Share
 thoughts on the morning'a service, exchange news of personal events and discuss what you've been reading. Quiet,
 comfortable surroundings facilitate fellowship. Food generally ordinary, varied, inexpensive, and unimportant. 

 DINNER OUT 
 Meets twice a month on the 2 nd and 4 th Thursdays at local restaurants. This is a great
 way to get to know people! Low key, low cost and always lots of good conversation. Singles and couples, old members
 and new friends welcome. 

 DREAM GROUPS 
 For those interested in dream interpretation, there are currently two groups: one on the 2 nd and
 4 th Sunday evening of the month and and another on Friday evening. Using Jeremy Taylor's approach, in
 which dreams further health and wholeness, group members share and discuss their dreams. 

 FAMILY OUTINGS 
 Family activities planned by the group members. 

 FOLK DANCING 
 Greek, Balkan and Israeli line and circle dancing. Meets in member's homes about once a month for a potluck 

 FRIDAY NIGHT AT THE MOVIES 
 Meets at the church the last Friday of each month to view a variety of favorite movies. Bring snacks to share. 

 HIKING 
 We live in one of the most spectacularly beautiful places in the world!! Onec a month a Saturday day hike of
 5-10 miles into the spectacularly scenic Northwest wilderness. A different person coordinates and leads each hike. 

 RECORDER 
 Learn to play the recorder; play with other group members, share music with others. Beginners and players of all
 levels welcome. Meets every other Saturday, 9:30-11 a.m. 

 SACRED CIRCLE 
 The group started as a 12-week class following Julia Cameron's book, The
 Artists Way. Having finished the class, the group now meets the 1st and 3rd Monday
 of each month. Through projects and discussion of related books, participants work to keep creativity alive by
 letting go of judgments and encouraging each other's unique expression. 

 SYMPOSIUM 
 A small group meeting every Thursday 1a.m. - 1 p.m. in the Friarplace.to report on what's new
 in our lives and discuss what seems important or ridiculous in our church, nation or world. Members share information,
 lend books and CD's, and advise each other on problems big and small. Bring your own brown bag lunch or grab a
 bite afterward on your own. Tunctioning since 1988. Meets every Thrusday 1 

 TUESDAY TOASTMASTERS 
 Sharpen your speaking skills and have fun too. Meets Tuesdays at 7 p.m. 

 TRAVEL GROUP 
 Discussions and activities concerning various aspects of travel. Members share include sharing
 ideas, experriences and recourses for travel information. The group may also plan short trips. 

 WILD WOMEN 
 A social gathering for 40+ single women. Meets the second Saturday of the month In member's
 homes for potlucks. Guests are welcome. 

 WOMEN'S SHARING CIRCLE 
 Meets the 2 nd and 4 th Monday at 7:15 p.m. 

 Top 
 Home Minister Sermon 
 Services Religious Ed. About 
 Contact Welcoming Links EUUC Bookstore