Minister's Page 

 Home Sermons Services Religious Ed. Events 
 About Contact Welcoming 

 Links EUUC Bookstore 

 THE MINISTER'S PAGE 
 Newsletter Columns Sermons 

 REV. DR. EDWARD LEE BROCK, SETTLED MINISTER OF THE EDMONDS UNITARIAN UNIVERSALIST CHURCH,
 EDMONDS, WASHINGTON 

 * Bachelor of Arts from Birmingham-Southern College, 1976 
 * Master of Divinity from Vanderbilt University, 1979 
 * Doctor of Ministry fron the University of Creation Spirituality, Oakland, California, 2001 
 * Last ministry prior to Edmonds was at the Unitarian Universalist Church of Jacksonville, Florida from 1989 through
 1997. 

 WHILE IN JACKSONVILLE: 
 - Was president of the Interfaith Council of Jacksonville, an ecumenical organization of over 300 area churches,
 synagogues, and religious communities 
 - Involved as leader in several social action projects involving religious communities, nonprofit agencies, and
 philanthropic organizations 
 - Founded local chapter of Amnesty International 
 - Did extensive postgraduate studies with the late Rabbi Edwin Friedman and other teachers in the theory and application
 of natural system theory for congregations 
 Rev. Brock's sermon The Adventure of Hope is available on
 this site. 

 THE MINISTER'S COLUMN 

 The Search for Happiness 
 Much of my recent reading and study has delt with and attempt to understand the art of happiness. I have
 found four different resources which have helped me in ths attempt, and have found many points of agreement among
 them. These four are: 

 &middot; Two organizational consultants named Rick Foster and Greg Hicks. They believe they have identified
 the basic characteristics of people with a strong sense of well-being and happiness. 

 &middot; Buddhist writers who have written on happiness, including the recent book by the Dalai Lama. 

 &middot; Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi, who has written extensively on the subject of optimal experience. 

 &middot; Murray Bowen and the writers like Roberta Gilbert who have developed his ideas about self-differentiation
 and its effect on health and personal effectiveness. 

 These authors believe that there are certain patterns of acting and being that foster a sense of well being,
 happiness and even joy. Anyone can understand and practice these patterns. Does knowing how happiness is created
 make someone happy? No. Does practicing these patterns seem to generate happiness? These authors believe the answer
 is yes. 
 In a world of ecological deterioration, senseless violence, injustice, and many other problems, talking about
 happiness may seem self-indulgent or in poor taste. However, persons with a strong sense of personal well being
 tend to have positive and constructive effects on their environment. Perhaps experiencing a sense of well-being
 is the indispensable starting point for helping our world be a better place. 
 I will draw on thses resources from time to time in the hopes of stimulate your thinking
 about a subject that touches us all 
 Top 
 Home Sermons Services 
 Events About Contact 
 Welcoming Links EUUC Bookstore