Coming Events 

 Home Minister 
 Sermons Services About 
 Contact Events Welcoming 

 EUUC Bookstore Links 
 Strong emphasis is placed on religious education for both children and adults. 

 The purpose of the religious education program is to give direction, enrichment, and perspective
 to this everyday opportunity for religious experience. 
 We seek to encourage an individual's natural ability to respond creatively to the world, to stimulate
 a spirit of free inquiry, and to encourage a broad appreciation for the religious experience. 
 Religious Education for the young people is based
 on the conviction that each individual's response to the experience of life is the ground upon which religious
 faith is built. This implies that religious education goes on hourly, daily, in the home, the school, and on the
 playground. 
 We hope to help children, youth, and adults develop an ethical, moral, and open approach to life,
 along with a sense of respect for themselves and others. 
 We also endeavor to provide a background in other religious movements and traditions, as well
 as in Unitarian Universalist history and values. 

 What's happening in March 
 We're making a little shift in focus this month in our RE classes. We've been talking about God,
 how people perceive the concept, how God is different ideas about God than we do. And, while some people are comfortable
 with using God language to describe their belief systems, not everyone is. So, as we attempt to explore our own
 personal beliefs, we are going to be asking questions in even more open-ended ways. What are the big things that
 really matter to you? What do you believe in? Do you have faith in something? If so, what? We're going to attempt
 to find words and images that help us to express some of the things that we find worthy in life. 

 We'll start this week with a wonderful story, "The Spyglass." I'll leave the book out on the RE table
 for your perusal and I've asked the Youngs to see if they can order copies for sale at the bookstore. - Mary 

 Mary Marsh, Director of Religious Education 
 As the Director of Religious Education, I am thrilled to be able to welcome you to this program.
 I would like to give you an idea of the kinds of things I do that you, the parent or volunteer in the RE program,
 might find helpful. 

 I am here to make sure our volunteers have what they need to do their jobs well. I'l1 make sure curriculum and
 other resources are ready for people who need them. I am also here to make sure that our program is administered
 with care, records are kept available and plans are coordinated. 

 It is my job to help families find their way around the program. This happens both on Sunday mornings and throughout
 the week when I am available to you to answer your questions and to help you find your place in the program. And
 finally, I maintain lines of communication so that everyone has access to the information needed to participate
 fully in the program. 

 Here is how you can reach me with questions, suggestions, concerns or comments. 

 Hours: 
 Sundays before during and after church services 
 Thursday 9 a.m. - 12 noon 
 Other times by appointment 

 Office/Message Phone: 425-778-0376 
 Home Phone: 425-775-0733 
 email: huuman.athome@gte.net 

 Top 
 Home Minister Sermons Services About Contact Events Welcoming EUUC Bookstore Links