Light 

 Introduction History Spring Tour Other Seasons Companion Plants Fruit/Veg/Herbs Work Family Links ARS 

 Visiting the Garden Design Elements SPECIMENS TIPS GARDEN FURNITURE 
 Design Elements: Garden Plan Color Light Movement Texture Form Style 

 Design Element 4--Movement 

 The garden was designed
 to be experienced while walking, presenting a continually unfolding
 experience of color and texture. Every path curves through its
 entire length, each bend offering another surprise. The network
 of walkways contains three types: the main gravel paths, the
 interior paths, and the perimeter paths. Each gives the visitor
 a unique perspective. 

 To allow a more reflective appreciation
 of individual specimens and groupings, twenty-one benches
 and chairs are strategically
 placed throughout the garden. 

 The main
 gravel paths (above) are shown on the original garden
 plan . These generally provide views of the plants from low
 to high as they recede from the walkway. A complementary set
 of interior paths leads the visitor through tunnels of rhododendrons
 under the largest specimens. This route, which wanders through
 every bed in the garden, is like a walk in a rhododendron forest,
 where the focus is on trunks, branches, and the intriguing underside
 of the leaves. 

 While the
 interior, exterior and perimeter paths give close and medium
 range views, the lawns open out to faraway places in the garden,
 as well as to the Cascade Mountains and Mount Rainier. The grass
 areas are wider than the paths, but narrower than typical lawns,
 since they are also walkways. 

 A stroll through all of the paths
 and lawns in the Anderson Garden covers more than a mile. 

 For
a stroll on these paths in winter, click here. 

 We encourage our visitors to stay on
 the paths, but some don't. 

 Design Elements: Garden Plan Color Light Movement Texture Form Style 

 Introduction History Spring Tour Other Seasons Companion Plants Fruit/Veg/Herbs Work Family Links ARS 

 Visiting the Garden Design Elements SPECIMENS TIPS GARDEN FURNITURE 
 &copy; 2001 by John and Doreen Anderson