Style 

 Introduction History Spring Tour Other Seasons Companion Plants Fruit/Veg/Herbs Work Family Links ARS 

 Visiting the Garden Design Elements SPECIMENS TIPS GARDEN FURNITURE 

 Design Elements: Garden Plan Color Light Movement Texture Form 

 Design Element 6--Style 

 Under Construction 

 Interpreting Nature 

 The Anderson Garden, like
 any garden, is not a copy of nature, but an arrangement of nature
 to suggest certain things about the natural world from the perspective
 of the designer. The garden style is a product of the designer's
 individual differences, experiences, historical/cultural roots,
 and talent. 

 Gardens fall on a continuum from
 the rigidly formal, such as the geometric gardens of Europe,
 to the subtle reflections of natural landscapes in a Japanese
 garden. The Anderson Garden is closer to the Japanese, but with
 some European and American influences. 

 Historical and Cultural Influences on the Anderson Garden Design 

 European 

 After receiving his landscape
 architecture degree from Penn State in the early 1930s, Bob boarded
 a freighter to bicycle around Europe. The French and Italian
 gardens suggested to him a taming of nature, civilizing unruly
 wilds with order. Garden sculptures accented the precise plantings. 

 The English estate gardens he
 visited, featuring the collecting and hybridizing of 19th Century
 rhododendron pioneers, recreated native landscapes of a world
 empire on gentry estates. 

 Meanwhile, English country gardens
 of the common people splashed with color, with masses of flowers
 planted close in spontaneous confusion. 

 American 

 The First Anderson Garden--Summit, New Jersey 

 After World War II, Bob created
 the first Anderson Garden on a lakeside forest in Springfield,
 New Jersey. His education and trip influenced his development
 of eight wooded acres into a rhododendron park. He built the
 house out of local stone dug to make room for the plants, and
 included a small geometric garden with brick walkways and patio
 attached to the house. 

 Away from the house, broad meandering
 grass paths led the visitor around large rhododendron beds. Many
 of the specimens were indigenous plants that he shipped up by
 the boxcarload from the Appalachian Mountains of Virginia and
 his native North Carolina. 

 In 1961, Bob and Betty, then
 in their fifties, sold the New Jersey garden and started from
 scratch in the Pacific Northwest, 3000 miles away. They bought
 a hayfield in Enumclaw, Washington, between Puget Sound and the
 Cascade Mountains. 

 Asian 

 Because of their location on
 the Pacific Rim, Washington gardens were more strongly influenced
 by Asia, and by Japan in particular, than those in the Atlantic
 states. The northwest had many public Japanese gardens, and the
 climate supported many Japanese plants. 

 In Japanese gardens, various
 elements suggest in small scale features of the natural world,
 such as mountains, rivers, and forests. Water flows in ponds,
 creeks, and waterfalls rather than fountains. Color variation
 is subdued and minimal, with few flowers. 
 These gardens are designed
 for contemplation rather than for entertaining. 

 The influences of Japanese gardening
 permeate the Anderson Garden. 

 The Second Anderson Garden--Enumclaw, Washington 

 Bob began creating the second Anderson Garden and house in 1961.
 Instead of a stone house in the European and early American tradition,
 he designed one of northwest cedar, with a hip roof found both
 in Japanese temples and Dutch houses. Like the New Jersey garden,
 it featured brick pattern walks and patio around the house. A
 large circle of grass forms the transition between the geometry
 of the house and the natural shapes of the garden. The Anderson Garden,
 as described in other sections of Design Elements , is
 a collection of curving paths and beds, with constantly changing
 variety in color, light, texture, and form, with surprising views
 around every bend. Like figure skating, what seems to the viewer
 to be spontaneous flow is actually carefully planned. Reflecting
 the contradictory tendencies toward order and randomness in nature
 is far from haphazard. 

 Personal
Extensions in the Anderson Garden Design 

 A garden
 is an extension of a personality as well as a reflection of a
 cultural influences. In fact, individual differences within a
 society are often greater than differences between cultures. 

 Some personal
 attributes can be placed on a continuum, with their polar opposites
 hinting at an individual's garden style. Some of these opposites
 are 

 restrained /flamboyant 

 subtle /obvious 

 inward /outward 

 private /public 

 informal /formal 

 solitary /gregarious 

 surprising /predictable 
 Bob
 tended toward the left side of the chart. highlighted in blue.
 This same list seems to differentiate between the dominant characteristics
 of Japanese and European gardens. When a person has the traits
 of one culture and roots in the other, some interesting paradoxes
 emerge, like the expression of latent opposites within the same
 personality. 

 The
 Anderson Garden is in some ways like a Japanese stroll garden.
 The changing scenes from closeup to distant; the elements suggest
 water, forests, and mountains; and the lack of straight lines.
 But it explodes in color each spring, like the English country
 gardens or the nearby alpine meadows. Plants are close together,
 unlike the parse Asian gardens, but very much like the wild stands
 of rhododendron in the mountains of China or Appalachia. 

 Coming soon: 

 Within the Anderson
Garden are several pocket gardens reminding one of the natural
landscapes near native rhododendron populations. 

 bamboo forest,
alpine garden, shade moss/fern garden, deciduous woodland, native
garden 

 Integration of
 herb garden , orchards , vegetables with other landscaping 

 Design Elements: Garden Plan Color Light Movement Texture Form 
 Introduction History Spring Tour Other Seasons Companion Plants Fruit/Veg/Herbs Work Family Links ARS 

 Visiting the Garden Design Elements SPECIMENS TIPS GARDEN FURNITURE 

 &copy; 2001 by John and Doreen Anderson