C Programming Notes 

 C Programming Notes 
Notes to Accompany
 The C Programming Language ,
by Kernighan and Ritchie (``K&R'')

Steve Summit

 The C Programming Language ,
or K&R as it is affectionately known,
is widely praised by experienced C programmers
as one of the best books on C there is.
(It was also the first;
it also happens to be a best-seller.)
The only real criticism K&R ever receives
is that it may not be
the best
tutorial for beginners;
it seems to assume a certain amount of programming savvy
and familiarity with computers.
Actually,
if you read it carefully,
you'll find that is constantly dispensing wisdom about programming in general,
from basic concepts to deep insights to impeccable commentary 
on imponderable topics such as programming style, at the same 
time it teaches the specifics of the C language.
Therefore,
the fundamental criticism may simply be that K&R is not 
suitable for those who read carelessly.
 The authors are not out to save the world
or to convert it to their philosophy of programming.
When they say something, they say it once,
without theatrics or undue emphasis.
If you read the book too quickly,
or skim it,
or look only for specific answers
to what you think you're trying to learn today,
you will miss much of the excellent advice which the authors have to offer.
 These notes
were prepared
(beginning in Spring, 1995)
for the
University of Washington
Experimental College
course in Introductory C Programming.
They
are meant to supplement K&R
for the reader who is new to C
and perhaps to programming,
and who wants a slightly more detailed,
less pithy presentation.
I'll add insights from my own experience,
in particular by pointing out those areas where people 
traditionally misunderstand something about C or K&R's 
presentation of it.
I'll also call out a few of the very deep sentences,
which you might overlook at first even if you're not skimming
(perhaps because their significance only becomes apparent once 
you've begun writing bigger or more complicated programs),
but which contain advice which is absolutely vital to successful
real-world programming and which,
if you can take it to heart early,
will save you from a lot of misery out in the school of hard 
knocks later on.
 Note that most of these notes
merely amplify on the things K&R is saying;
there isn't much to say that it doesn't already say, 
usually better.
In particular, many of the things that I'll comment on in the 
early chapters are discussed in more detail in the later 
chapters;
by barging in with my know-it-all comments,
I'm partially destroying the authors' careful progression
from an initial, slightly superficial overview
to a more detailed, complete presentation.
If these notes present more detail than you want to see at first,
don't worry
(but please do let me know);
just
come back to them later
to see if they clear up anything you're still uncertain on.
(Also,
if
you find the description in K&R adequately clear,
you don't have to read all of these notes,
but do take note of the highlighted ``deep sentences.'')

 Preface 
 Preface to the First Edition 
 Introduction 
 Chapter 1. A Tutorial Introduction 
 Chapter 2: Types, Operators, and Expressions 
 Chapter 3: Control Flow 
 Chapter 4: Functions and Program Structure 
 Chapter 5: Pointers and Arrays 
 Chapter 6: Structures 
 Chapter 7: Input and Output 

 Read Sequentially 

This page by Steve Summit 
// Copyright 1995, 1996
// mail feedback