SeattleOtaku: Review - Akira 

 Akira 

 O ne of the classics of 1980's anime, and on
nearly everyone's recommended list (although later programs are arguably
better), Akira is finally reawakening on DVD with a 
cleaner-than-video print. My fandom of this began with a not-so-legal
video copy of the original Japanese laser disk, which had no English
subtitles. Needless to say, the ending was truly strange until I was able
to read the manga it was based upon (with the differences caused by the
film being made before the books were finished). 

 Story Intro 

 In the late 1990's, a strange explosion destroys downtown Tokyo and
prompts the beginning of World War III, after which the major metropolitan
cities begin rebuilding. Thirty-some years later, in 2019, Neo-Tokyo is
still a dystopia, but is getting ready to host the summer Olympic games. 

 Among the youth growing up in this desolate world are Kaneda and his
motorcycle gang, out for a spin and a rumble against a rival gang. During
one chase sequence, Tetsuo, a young member of Kaneda's gang, runs straight
into a child on the street -- this "child" looks old, has the number "26"
tatooed on his palm, and survives the explosion of Tetsuo's bike without a
single scratch. The same can't be said of Tetsuo, as he's taken to the
hospital -- or so the rest of the gang assumes. 

 There are forces at bay in the world -- some call them "Psi" abilities,
some "telekenesis", others simply "powers" -- and there are those that try
to bring them out in people for their own power trips. Most people have
very limited powers, if any at all, and those who possess greater
abilities find them sometimes harder to control. One such person with
hightened power in the 1990's lost that control and caused a particular
city-wide explosion. His name was Akira, number "28". 

 Tetsuo escapes from his military-run hospital room to find that he, too,
has these powers, and they're growing out of control. Can the scientists,
Kaneda, a group of politcal radicals, and the other powerful "children" find
the strength to stop Tetsuo from a quest to reawaken the legendary Akira
himself? 

 My Thoughts 

 I've always enjoyed the detailed art in this movie. I believe it was
one of the few that recorded the voice tracks before finishing the
animation, so the sometimes-typical "mouth-flapping" isn't anywhere to be
seen. There are quite a few places were viewers can forget they're
watching animation. 

 The music is also a favorite of mine, a driving-beat of drums, chimes,
choruses, and other sounds (the 2-disk black-cover DVD set that Pioneer
released also has making of featurettes that detail which instruments did
which scenes). 

 Check out the original manga as well for a more detailed story. As I
menionted earlier, they were finished after the movie was made and released,
so in a sense, the movie can be seen as a side-story. After all, Akira
himself only makes the briefest of appearances in the film. 

 Other Notes 

 Images can be found at the official Pioneer Entertainment site for
the recent restoration:
 Akira2001.com . 

 Akira 
 Distributed by Pioneer Entertainment 

-->

 Home 
 Reviews 
 Clubs 
 Conventions 
 Shopping 
 About Me 

 Feedback Appreciated .

 Copyright &copy;1994-2003 by Eric T. Jorgensen. 
 All rights reserved. Do not copy/redistribute.