SeattleOtaku: Review - Otaku no Video 

 Home 
 Reviews 
 Seiyuu/Actors 
 Clubs 
 Conventions 
 Shopping 
 LiveJournal 
 About Me 

 Otaku no Video 

 "If you're into playing tennis, that's fine. 
But if you like to watch anime, you're weird. 
Why?!" 
-- Kubo 

 M eet Kubo and Tanaka, two fans of anime (one
translation of the slang term otaku is 'obsessed fan') that set out
on a mission to "Otakunize" the world by starting their own anime company in
the Gainax studio's Otaku no Video .
Meet the Gainax studio, started by fans of anime and went on to become
one of the greats themselves (with works such as The Wings of
Honneamise , Nadia: Secret of the Blue Water , Neon
Genesis Evangelion , and others listed elsewhere on these pages as
well). 

 It certainly doesn't hurt to have designs from a favorite character designer
of mine, Sonoda Kenichi, who also designed characters and mecha in the
original Bubblegum Crisis , and created both
 Riding Bean and Gunsmith Cats . 

 "Normal folk just don't understand us." 
-- Tanaka 

 The show starts with Kubo practicing tennis, meeting his girlfriend at a
local diner, and other "normal" things. But one day, leaving his tennis-club
friends to their drinking night out in order to get some rest for an upcoming
match, he stumbles upon a group of anime fans led by his old high-school
friend Tanaka. 

 While the fandom circle that he joins seems strange to him at first (quite
normal to me, but then, I've obviously already been "otakunized"), his habits
change. He winds up quitting the tennis team and spending most of his time
with the anime club; his girlfriend leaves him. Fed up with the discrimination
of Anime/SF fans, he decides to drop everything and become the biggest otaku
ever -- "Otaking". He and Tanaka set out to "otakunize" the
world. . .&nbsp. 

 "Otakuland... 
Oh, it's all so dear to me." 
-- Kubo 

 More studio in-jokes, other-anime references, and Japanese pop-culture links
in two 50-minute videos than some other shows have in an entire series.
See how many you can recognize. . . . 

 Otaking lives! 

 Otaku no Video (OVA) 
 More Otaku no Video (OVA) 

 Otaku no Video 
 Distributed by AnimEigo 
 (Translated quotes Copyright (C) AnimEigo.) 

-->

 Home 
 Reviews 
 Seiyuu/Actors 
 Clubs 
 Conventions 
 Shopping 
 LiveJournal 
 About Me 

 Feedback Appreciated .

 Copyright &copy;1994-2003 by Eric T. Jorgensen. 
 All rights reserved. Do not copy/redistribute.