State Services. 

 Certain Solemn Days, 
 For which Particular Services are Appointed. 

 The Anniversary of the day of the Accession of the Reigning Sovereign .

 A Form of Prayer with Thanksgiving to be used yearly upon the Fifth day of November : from 1662 and an eighteenth-century version .
 A form of Prayer to be used yearly upon the Thirtieth day of January : versions from 1662 and 1844 .
 A Form of Prayer with Thanksgiving to be used yearly upon the Nine and twentieth day of May : versions from the book in the Tower of London and from the copy in Huntington Library .
 The 20th day of June ; being the Day on which Her Majesty [Queen Victoria] began Her happy Reign.

 &#160; &#160; &#160; CHARLES R. 
 UR will and pleasure is, That these Three forms of Prayer and Service made for the Fifth of November , the Thirtieth of January , and the Twenty ninth of May , be forthwith Printed and Published, and for the future annexed to the Book of Common Prayer and Liturgy of the Church of England , to be used yearly on the said Days, in all Cathedral and Collegiate Churches and Chappels; in all Chappels of Colleges and Halls within both Our Universities, and of Our Colleges of Eaton and Winchester , and in all Parish-Churches and Chappels within Our Kingdom of England , Dominion of Wales , and Town of Berwick upon Tweed . 
 Given at Our Court at White-Hall the 2 d day of May , in the 14 th year of Our Reign. By His Majesties Command, EDW. NICHOLAS 

 &#160; &#160; &#160; "VICTORIA R. 
 UR Will and Pleasure is, That these Four Forms of Prayer and Service, made for the Fifth of November, the Thirtieth of January, the Twenty-ninth of May, and the Twentieth of June, be forthwith printed and published, and annexed to the Book of Common Prayer and Liturgy of the United Church of England and Ireland, to be used yearly
 on the said Days, in all Cathedral and Collegiate Churches and Chapels; in all Chapels of Colleges and Halls within Our Universities of Oxford, Cambridge, and Dublin, and of Our Colleges of Eton and Winchester, and in all Parish Churches and Chapels within those parts of Our United Kingdom called England and Ireland. 
 "Given at Our Court at Kensington the Twenty-first Day "of June, 1837, in the First Year of Our Reign. "By Her Majesty's Command, "J. RUSSELL." 

 &#160; &#160; &#160; "VICTORIA R. 
 UR Will and Pleasure is, That so much of Our said Royal Warrant of the Twenty-first Day of June, One thousand eight hundred and thirty-seven, in the First Year of Our Reign, as is hereinbefore recited, be revoked, and that the Use of the said Forms of Prayer and Service made for the Fifth of November, the Thirtieth of January, the
 Twenty-ninth of May be henceforth discontinued in all Cathedral and Collegiate Churches and Chapels; in all Chapels of Colleges and Halls within Our Universities of Oxford, Cambridge, and Dublin, and of Our Colleges of Eton and Winchester, and in all Parish Churches and Chapels within those parts of Our United Kingdom called England and Ireland, and that
 the said Forms of Prayer and Service be not henceforth printed and published with or annexed to the Book of Common Prayer and Liturgy of the United Church of England and Ireland. 
 "Given at Our Court at Saint James's, the Seventeenth Day of "January, 1859, in the Twenty-second Year of Our Reign. "By Her Majesty's Command, "S. H. WALPOLE."