Faradic Revolution 

 OTHER MACHINES 

 TOP 

 SEARCH 

 GOOD STUFF 

 NEW STUFF 

 FARADIC REVOLUTION 

W. Beaty 2007 

Seattle Post-Intelligencer Dec 
20, 2007, brief article w/photo

 Photos on Flikr, Eldan 
 Photos on Flikr, Geoffff 

 Proposal, PDSTWE 911 Media Arts center

 See photos below 

 ARTIST NAME: 
 William J. Beaty 

 TYPE: 
 Kinetic sculpture; hand-cranked hyperbola/circle shutter-slot device

 DIMENSIONS: 
 Wall-mounted, somewhat flat, attaches to a wall at the top, 
 approx 5ft vertical, 5 ft wide, 8in thick, power supplies inside.

 MATERIALS: 
 Motorized disk w/slip-ring assembly, wood enclosure, Acrylic sheets, 
 tesla coils, green gas-discharge tubes, DC power supply

 INTERACTION: 
 The disks spin fast, but the glowing lines move only slowly.
 One black 4-ft disk rotates continuously via a motor hub. This disk has 
 numerous long narrow CCFL tubes mounted on its surface and forming 
 radial glowing lines. For safety the motorized disk is behind an 
 acrylic window. A second 4-ft disk is mounted in front of the first one 
 upon horizontal rails. The second disk is opaque black with transparent 
 radial lines, and can be spun by the gallery visitor as well as slid 
 from side to side. (See diagram below.) Depending on which way they 
 spin, the two disks create a dynamically moving pattern of curved "field 
 lines" around two attracting or repelling poles. If both disks spin at 
 the same rate, this pattern's motion halts.

 GALLERY REQUIREMENTS: 
 As with a painting, it's wall mounted at approximately waist height. It 
 requires a 120Vac outlet of only a couple of amps. The fluorescent tubes 
 peek out through the moving slots, so the dynamic glow effects will be 
 not be visible in a brightly lit gallery. They won't need an entirely 
 dark room, but also it cannot be placed next to white walls with intense 
 floodlights.

 STATEMENT: 

 This work touches on the interaction of discovery and ridicule, the
 mutual annihilation of creativity with scoffing, and it symbolizes a 
 major branch point in our space-time world-line. For his proposing that 
 invisible electric and magnetic fields exist, Michael Faraday drew scorn 
 and derision at the hands of the scientific community of the time. And 
 then he died. Yet his idea escaped suppression by hostile disbelief. 
 Very fortunately James Clerk Maxwell wrote an extensive report which 
 convinced the rest of the world to take Faraday's bizarre idea seriously.
 This soon led to electrical engineering, radio, and Einstein's 
 relativity. Yet by such a narrow margin Faraday's idea could have been 
 easily lost; that road not taken. Consider how many other ideas as 
 important as Faraday's *were* lost; were never supported, and were 
 swallowed and cancelled out by active forces of anti-creativity, 
 leaving no trace.

 CONTACT: 
 William Beaty
 University of Washington
 Bagley Hall #74
 PO Box 351700
 Seattle, WA 98195-1700

 425-222-5066 h
 206-543-6195 w
 beaty@chem.washington.edu

 /art/dork07/faraday.html

 DIAGRAM: gallery wall mount 

 CRUDE PROTOTYPE: 1-ft motorized disks with backlight 

 DISKS ROTATING TOGETHER. If the centers of the disks are 
moved together and overlap, the glowing lines collapse to a point 
and vanish. Note that in the finished piece, opaque sheets will 
surround each disk, leaving only a black background with bright glowing 
lines. 

 DISKS ROTATING OPPOSITE. The disks move fast, but the glowing lines 
move slow, and whenever the disks spin at the same speed, the glowing 
lines stop moving entirely. If the centers of the disks overlap, then 
the number of glowing lines is doubled, and a single radial pattern 
is created. 

Brief article w/photo, Seattle PI, Dec 20 2007

 Photos on Flikr, Eldan 
 Photos on Flikr, Geoffff 

/art/dork07/faraday.html 
Created and maintained by 
 Bill Beaty . Mail me at: 

 .