Shadow 

 Shadow 

 When 
 we first heard of Shadow in the shelter, we went to meet him. This was 
 Friday, and he had been there since the previous afternoon. 

 He was dirty, stinky, and 
 had little mats all over him. They said he was picked up as a stray, 
 wandering around Lakewood. We spent time with him in a small meeting 
 room, and realized he was blind. 

 Since they were waiting for 
 his owners to show up and claim him, we couldn't get him until Monday. 
 In the meantime, a shelter volunteer had combed out the loose coat -- 
 but left the mats and the dirt. 
 As Kathy started grooming, his 
 beauty began to show. Here he is after just a few hours of combing. The 
 only mats that had to be cut were behind his ears; they were huge. He loved the attention, and even fell asleep during brushing. 

 The longer he was here, the 
 happier he became. Shadow is a brave dog who has been blind since birth. 

 We 
 took him to a veterinary ophthalmologist who told us both retinas are 
 detached and he can only see a bit of light and some movement. There 
 is nothing that can be done to correct this genetic defect. As you can 
 see, he definitely knows where the horse is. 

 Kathy walks the dogs to get 
 the paper every morning, and with a friend's help all the dogs got to 
 go. Left to right, Shadow, Charlie, Alex, Dashik, and Tasha. 

 We took Shadow to the annual 
 Sammy Olympics, where he was the hit of everyone there. They took turns 
 holding him while we took our dogs to the different events. 

 The owner of the facility agreed 
 to give Shadow some free time in the herding ring, and he shows here that 
 herding is definitely in his blood. 

 Using his ears and his limited 
 sense of motion, he was able to keep the sheep where they should be. 

 (above) 
 You could tell the Shadow was having the time of his life. 

 (right) His mellow 
 nature was on display all day. He loved the attention of the people, 
 especially the kids who couldn't quit petting him. 

 Our son Jeff came to visit, 
 and found out Shadow was happy to run around playing with everyone. Tasha 
 on left, Shadow on right. 

 Always happy. After having 
 Shadow here for a while, we believe he is no more than a year old, and 
 may even be younger. 

 He may be blind, 
 but he always knows where the food can be found. Counterclockwise from 
 top: Tasha, Shadow, Charlie, Dashik and Alex (hiding in a sea of white). 

 Shadow loves rawhide chews. 
 Here he is in a bit of sunlight, enjoying life. 

 More pictures of Shadow...