Standard Cryptographic Algorithm Naming 

 SCAN Conventions 

 Definitions 

These documents use the terms "MUST", "SHOULD", and "MAY", and their negated
forms, as defined in
 RFC 2119 .
These terms apply to crypto algorithm and library implementations that are
intended to conform to some subset of SCAN.

In addition, the terms "WILL" and "WILL NOT" specify consistency requirements
and policies for SCAN itself. If it is stated that something WILL be true,
but it is not actually true, please report it as an error. New SCAN entries
or changes to existing entries must satisfy all WILL and WILL NOT constraints.

The term "byte" always refers to an 8-bit byte, or octet. The value of a
byte is an integer between 0 and 255 inclusive.

In algorithm descriptions,

 "A || B" denotes the concatenation of byte strings A and B,
 "A XOR B" denotes exclusive-OR of equal-length byte strings A and B,
 "floor( x )" is the largest integer less than or equal to x ,
 "ceiling( x )" is the smallest integer greater than or equal to x ,
 "I2OSP n ( i )" is an n -byte big-endian
 representation of the integer i . 

 Algorithm Interfaces 

The inputs and outputs of algorithms (plaintext, ciphertext, keys, input
messages, etc.) are normally sequences of bytes. However, in the case of some
message digests the input may also be given as a sequence of bits, as explained
 here .

If it is insufficiently clear from the algorithm specification how the inputs
or outputs are to be interpreted as sequences of bytes, the algorithm comments
WILL clarify this.

 Unless otherwise specified , all hexadecimal-format
test vectors that are referenced by SCAN should be assumed to be written from
left to right. That is, each test vector represents a sequence of bytes where:

 each pair of hex digits corresponds to one byte,
 in each pair, the hex digit on the left is most significant,
 the pairs are written from left to right, i.e. the first byte
 corresponds to the leftmost pair of hex digits.

Unless the specification of an algorithm describes any of its
inputs or outputs in terms of bit sequences, the order of bits within a
byte is not, and does not need to be defined. If you are designing an
algorithm, suggestions about byte and bit order, among other
issues, are given here .

 Categories for References 

References WILL be marked as being in one or more of the following categories:

 "[ Def ]" - defines the algorithm,
 "[ Inf ]" - gives additional information or an alternative
 description,
 "[ History ]" - describes an earlier variant of the algorithm,
 "[ An ]" - cryptanalysis (with either negative or positive
 implications for the algorithm's security),
 "[ Patent ]" - patents or patent applications that may affect
 implementations of the algorithm,
 "[ Test ]" - includes test vectors,
 "[ Impl ]" - includes a reference implementation, written
 or endorsed by the algorithm designer(s). Note that
 in many cases these implementations are not optimised.

Note that the [ Patent ] references cannot be guaranteed to include all
applicable patents.

 Security implications 

Unless stated otherwise in the " Security comments: " sections, nothing
is implied about the security of an algorithm simply by it having an entry
in SCAN. The security comments represent the opinions of the author(s)
(or any other people who are quoted) only.

There may be published attacks that are not listed in the security
comments or references. If you know of any such attacks, or if you want to
dispute something said in these comments, please post to
 sci.crypt .

References to papers describing cryptanalysis of an algorithm should not
be taken as necessarily implying that the algorithm is broken (often, a paper
provides support for an algorithm rather than an attack on it, and attacks may
or may not be practical).

 Algorithm Parameters 

Some algorithms have parameters, each of which which WILL be marked as one or
more of "write", "read", and "creation". A "write" parameter can be set, and a
"read" parameter can be read, after the algorithm object has been created
(provided that whichever API is being used supports that).
 java.security.Parameterized interface.)
-->

Any parameters given in parentheses following the algorithm name WILL also be
listed as "creation" parameters, and can be specified in the call used to create
the algorithm object (in Java, as part of the name passed to getInstance ).
If there is more than one creation parameter, they are separated by commas, with
no whitespace.

For example, the Java code:

 Mac.getInstance("HMAC(SHA-1)")

will create an object that implements the HMAC message authentication code,
with "SHA-1" as the value of HMAC's digest parameter.
When a creation parameter refers to an algorithm, that algorithm may itself
be parameterized, for example:

 Mac.getInstance("HMAC(HAVAL(32,5))")

An algorithm that depends on one or more other algorithms (as HMAC does in
the above examples) is called a "construction".

 Adding New Algorithms 

If you would like to add an entry to the list, please post it to the
Usenet newsgroup
 sci.crypt , with a subject line that includes
"SCAN". The post should give the text of the proposed entry, in the same
format as other algorithms of the same type, and ideally should include:

 references to at least one paper or web page describing the algorithm
 (preferably, although not necessarily, a paper published in a refereed
 journal).
 any other useful references (cryptanalysis, home page, patents and
 patent applications, reference implementation, etc.)
 if the references do not completely specify the algorithm (including
 input/output formats, etc.) in sufficient detail to allow
 interoperable implementations, then any missing details should be
 given.
 test vectors, where available (unless it is particularly simple,
 an algorithm without test vectors WILL only be listed as provisional
 or experimental; see below).

If some of this information isn't available for existing algorithms,
post anyway; other people on the newsgroups may know where to find it.

sci.crypt should also be used to discuss corrections and additions to
existing entries. (I prefer to handle these on newsgroups rather than via
email, as it is important to get other cryptographers' comments about
changes.)

 Algorithm status and stability 

Each SCAN entry (not including alleged algorithms )
is classified and colour-coded as one of:

 &#8226; Blue - stable 
 ? Green - provisional 
&#215; Red - experimental 

The symbols '&#8226;', '?' and '&#215;' give the same information as the
colour-coding. (If you don't see blue, green and red text above, or if
'&#8226;' or '&#215;' display as boxes, see the browser
problems section below.)

During the early stages of the development of SCAN, there have been a number
of incompatible changes to algorithms (all of which are clearly marked in
the comments for the relevant entries).

However, when SCAN version 1.1 is published, the policy from then on WILL be that
once an algorithm has been accepted as stable, it can never 
change - not even if the change is apparently backward-compatible. Any revisions
WILL be handled by assigning a new algorithm name. Also, a stable algorithm WILL
NOT be able to change its status to provisional or experimental.
There will be absolutely no exceptions to this policy.

Note that this does not mean that the entry describing the algorithm cannot be
modified, e.g. to add new papers, clarifications, or security comments. Also,
stable algorithms can still be generalised by adding extra creation
parameters. For instance, a block cipher named "Foo" could be generalised to
"Foo[(rounds)]", where (rounds) indicates the number of rounds to be used.

Provisional and experimental algorithms, on the other hand, can be removed from
SCAN or changed incompatibly at any time. An algorithm is marked as provisional
either because some required information (most commonly test vectors) is missing,
or because the document(s) that define the algorithm have draft or similar status.
I will attempt to avoid incompatible changes to provisional algorithms, but it is
always possible that when the missing information is found, it may expose a
problem that requires a change.

For experimental algorithms, no effort to avoid incompatible changes is implied.

The rationale for forbidding even backward-compatible revisions (apart from
generalisations) to stable algorithms is as follows:
the JCA API (and any other API that may be adopted for languages other than Java)
makes use of a list of security providers configured by the user or administrator,
in order from most preferred to least preferred. When an algorithm name is
looked up without specifying an exact provider, the first provider in preference
order that supports the algorithm is used.
If compatible changes were allowed, an implementation of an old revision of an
algorithm might 'mask' an implementation of a newer revision by a provider later
in the preference order, which is obviously not desirable.

Note that some of the citations in the " References: " sections are
to draft standards. Where an algorithm is said to be "as defined in" a
particular draft standard, the algorithm definition may change as the
standard changes. Implementation or design based on these drafts is
at the risk of developers (and users). Some of the referenced standards have
a specific requirement that advertisements and documentation should not attempt
to claim compliance with the standard until it has been finalized.

A SCAN entry that depends on a draft document as a [ Def ] or [ Test ]
reference WILL NOT be marked as stable. If a reference gives a particular version
number of a draft document, that means that the given version was the last one
for which the specification of the particular algorithm has been checked. It does
not mean that later drafts should not be used when implementing the algorithm.

All stable algorithms WILL have test vectors, unless the algorithm is simple
enough that there is clearly no need for test vectors.

 Alleged Algorithms 

At the end of each category page (e.g. MessageDigest, Mac, etc.) there is a
list of "alleged algorithms", most of which are linked to either an on-line
reference, or a page number in the Handbook of Applied Cryptography 
(HAC) or Applied Cryptography, 2nd edition (AC2).

These lists are purely informational. The entries typically will not
include any details of any parameters that would be needed, and in some
cases may not even be sufficient to identify the algorithm.

Please note that alleged algorithms may be:

 really more than one algorithm,
 a duplicate of another algorithm,
 not of the stated type,
 ambiguously specified,
 incorrectly stated to be broken,
 incorrectly stated to be related to another algorithm,
 incorrectly stated to be anything else,
 associated with incorrect or inconsistent test vectors,
 missing obvious references,
 linked to irrelevant references,
 completely obscure,
 inherently useless or uninteresting,
 unimplementable or impractical,
 a figment of my imagination,
 named differently to any future entry for that algorithm in SCAN,

in (almost :-) any combination. You have been warned. 

Of course, I'm still interested in comments or corrections for these sections,
as with any other part of SCAN.

 Provisional Algorithm Names 

I don't think anyone was using provisional algorithm names, and the
"Other alleged algorithms" lists (see above) now allow algorithms to
be minimally documented even if they do not meet the criteria for a
proper SCAN entry. Therefore, the convention using DNS domains that was
previously described here should not be used.

Just in case, the guarantee that standard names WILL NOT contain a colon
(' : ') character still applies.

 ASN.1 Object Identifiers 

Where there is an ASN.1 OBJECT IDENTIFIER for an algorithm, the dotted-decimal
form of the identifier can be used implicitly as an alias. These aliases
WILL be the only names that match ' oid ' from the following ABNF syntax
(which is a subset of that given in Section 2.15 of
 RFC 1778 ):

 oid = number *("." number)
 number = "0" | (leaddigit 1*digit)
 digit = "0"-"9"
 leaddigit = "1"-"9"

Note that other names may start with a digit, but WILL NOT match the syntax
above.

 Names as Programming Language Identifiers 

Most programming languages have fairly restrictive syntaxes for identifiers;
typically some superset of:

 identifier = letter *(letter | digit | "_")
 letter = "a"-"z" | "A"-"Z"
 digit = "0"-"9"

An identifier satisfying this syntax can be derived for each basic name
(not including parameters) as follows:

 If the entry contains an alias marked "(use for identifiers)", then
 use that alias.
 Otherwise, use the standard name with any "-" characters replaced
 by "_".

New names and aliases WILL be chosen so that this procedure always works, and
is reversible (by replacing "_" by "-") to give a valid alias.

 Conventions for symmetric ciphers 

The information that was in this section has moved to the
 symmetric ciphers page .

 Browser problems 

To see SCAN as intended:

 Make sure that your browser preferences are not set to override
 colours and styles set by the document. In Netscape or Mozilla,
 select "Edit menu | Preferences..." and look at the "Appearance -> Colors"
 tab. In MSIE, select "Tools menu | Internet Options..." and click
 the button labelled "Accessibility..." on the "General" tab.
 If you still cannot see the colour coding and/or symbols,
 you will need to upgrade to a browser that supports Unicode and Level 1
 Cascading Style Sheets.
 (The minimal and bug-ridden support provided by Netscape 4.x or MSIE 3.x
 is sufficient.)

 Viewing PDF and Postscript files 

Most of the on-line references are in PDF and/or PostScript format.
Versions of the Acrobat Reader TM PDF viewer for
several operating systems are available from Adobe's site:

To view PostScript files, you will need GNU or Aladdin Ghostscript, and
either Ghostview or GSview, all of which are available from
 here . Note that in
at least some versions of Netscape, compressed PostScript files (with filetypes
ending .ps.Z or .ps.gz), seem to be downloaded incorrectly when the link to a
file is clicked on directly. If you encounter this bug, it can be worked
around by right-clicking on the link, selecting "Save Link As..."
to save the compressed file, and decompressing it manually (on Windows, use
a decompression utility that understands .Z and .gz formats, such as
 Winzip ).

Alternatively, the TOM Conversion Server is a very useful service for converting
documents between different formats (you may find that the file upload option works
if the URL conversion option does not).

 Copyright and trademark information