Standard Cryptographic Algorithm Naming 

 Standard Cryptographic Algorithm Naming 
 Version 1.0.20a - 22 October, 2002 

 FRAMES |
 NO FRAMES 
 U.S. MIRROR |
 U.K. MAIN SITE |
 DOWNLOAD AS ZIP FILE 

This document gives references for a collection of cryptographic algorithms.
Each algorithm is assigned a standard ASCII name, and zero or more aliases.
The intention is for each algorithm to be specified in sufficient detail
that independent implementations will be able to interoperate.

The list has been designed initially for use by the Java Cryptography
Architecture, but should be useful in any situation where a convention is
needed for referring to algorithms by a string.

It can also serve as a source of references for definitions and cryptanalysis
of various algorithms. The intention is to develop API mappings for languages
other than Java in future (probably based on existing cryptography libraries).

 Definitions 

These documents use the terms "MUST", "SHOULD", and "MAY", and their negated
forms, as defined in
 RFC 2119 .
These terms apply to crypto algorithm and library implementations that are
intended to conform to some subset of SCAN.

In addition, the terms "WILL" and "WILL NOT" specify consistency requirements
and policies for SCAN itself. If it is stated that something WILL be true,
but it is not actually true, please report it as an error. New SCAN entries
or changes to existing entries must satisfy all WILL and WILL NOT constraints.

The term "byte" always refers to an 8-bit byte, or octet. The value of a
byte is an integer between 0 and 255 inclusive.

In algorithm descriptions,

 "A || B" denotes the concatenation of byte strings A and B,
 "A XOR B" denotes exclusive-OR of equal-length byte strings A and B,
 "floor( x )" is the largest integer less than or equal to x ,
 "ceiling( x )" is the smallest integer greater than or equal to x ,
 "I2OSP n ( i )" is an n -byte big-endian
 representation of the integer i . 

The accompanying SCAN Conventions 
document includes other important information on the conventions used in
compiling this list, which you should read before relying on it for any
significant application.
Also see these suggestions for
cryptosystem designers .

 General Resources 

The following are very useful resources for a wide range of algorithms:

 Lars Knudsen and Vincent Rijmen's
 Block Cipher Lounge .
 The Counterpane web site 
 (including their 
 index of cryptography papers available on-line , and
 list of
 crypto researchers' home pages ).
 The Cryptography Research
 web site (including more lists of

 on-line CRYPTO and EUROCRYPT conference papers , and of

 researcher's home pages ).
 Yet more 
 lists of home pages , this time compiled by
 David Wagner .
 The IACR Cryptology ePrint Archive ,
 which archives recent papers (since 1996) on cryptography and cryptanalysis.
 IEICE Transactions 
 web site.
 American Mathematical Society 
 web site and journal search engine .
 The ResearchIndex web site, also
 known as CiteSeer (very useful for literature searches).
 More on-line crypto papers 
 from www.cryptosoft.com .
 Helger Lipmaa 's
 Cryptology pointers .
 Crypto-Log:
 Internet Guide to Cryptography .
 Thomas Jakobsen 's
 page on 
 Cryptanalysis of Block Ciphers .
 Applied Cryptography, Second Edition , by
 Bruce Schneier : 
 web page ,

 order from Amazon.com .
 Handbook of Applied Cryptography , by Alfred J. Menezes,
 Paul C. van Oorschot, and Scott J. Vanstone: 
 web page ,

 order from Amazon.com .

Thanks to Wei Dai 
for providing the U.S. mirror site for SCAN.

 Contents 

 MessageDigest 
 Mac (Message Authentication Codes)
 Cipher (symmetric)

 Block Cipher Modes 
 Block Cipher Padding 

 KeyGenerator 
 PRF (Pseudo Random Functions) *
 PassphraseHash *
 SecureRandom 
 Cipher (asymmetric)

 Asymmetric Cipher Encoding Methods 

 Signature 

 Signature Encoding Methods 
 Signature Output Formats 

 Signcryption *
-->
 KeyAgreement 
 KeyPairGenerator 
 KeyFactory 
 AlgorithmParameterGenerator 
 AlgorithmParameters 

* Experimental; not in JCE 1.2.

 Copyright 

Copyright &copy; 1995-2002 The Cryptix Foundation Limited and David Hopwood.
All Rights Reserved.

This document and translations of it may be copied and
furnished to others, and derivative works that comment on or
otherwise explain it or assist in its implementation may be
prepared, copied, published and distributed, in whole or in
part, without restriction of any kind, provided that the above
copyright notice and this paragraph are included on all such
copies and derivative works. However, this document itself may
not be modified in any way, such as by removing the copyright
notice, except as needed for the purpose of developing
Internet standards in which case the procedures for copyrights
defined in the Internet Standards process must be followed, or
as required to translate it into languages other than English.

The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will
not be revoked by the copyright holders or their successors or
assigns.

This document and the information contained herein is provided
on an "AS IS" basis and THE AUTHORS AND CONTRIBUTORS DISCLAIM
ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED
TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT
INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

 Author and current maintainer : 
David Hopwood < david.hopwood@zetnet.co.uk >

 Trademarks 

"Cryptix" is a trademark of
 The Cryptix Foundation Ltd. 

"Java" is a registered trademark of
 Sun Microsystems, Inc. 

"DESX", "RC2", "RC4", "RC5", "RC6", "MD2", "MD4", and "MD5" are registered trademarks of
 RSA Security, Inc. 

"CAST5", "CAST-128", and "CAST-256" are registered trademarks of
 Entrust Technologies, Inc. 

"Diamond2 Block Cipher" is a trademark of Michael Paul Johnson.

"IDEA" is a registered trademark of
 Mediacrypt .

Other brand, product, and algorithm names may be trademarks or registered
trademarks of their respective holders.

 Copyright and trademarks