Interview with Hans Zimmer 

 The Inside Film
Interview with Hans Zimmer, Music Composer 

 This interview originally appeared in Inside Film on an unlisted date.
Interview by Simon Goodman. Copyright of A & R Publishing, Limited. 

 No. 5 Film Composer 
 Composing the score for The Thin Red LIne was the hardest commission
Hans Zimmer has ever accepted. And this is a man with one of the most
prestigious portfoliors in the industry including As Good As It Gets, Rain
Man, The Last Emperor, The Prince of Egypt and The Rock. 

 Where did you train? 
 I had two weeks of piano lessons. I was Stanley Myers' assistant--he
wrote the music for The Deer Hunter. I was also in the Buggles.
Remember Video Killed the Radio Star? We ruined a whole generation!
I was doing commercials in London for Air-Edel. THey had a load of film
composers and that's how I met him. 

 What was your first gig and how did you get it? 
 My Beautiful Laundrette. They let anybody do movies back then.
Stanley and I did it together. After that I did A World Apart. That
was my big break. Barry Levinson's wife liked the music and went out to
buy the CD, and Barry hired me for Rain Man Black Rain and Thelma and
Louise for director Ridley Scott. 

 What is the strangest film that you've had to score? 
 True Romance was the strangest. We had money for nine musicians
and so to spite the budget I hired the most useless, incongruous bunch of
guys I could find. The diversity gave us a great result! 

 And the hardest? 
 Thin Red Line was the hardest. Terrence Malick wanted me to
write the music first. Usually you compose to a rough cut. I threw all my
previous knowledge out the window and started again. I needed to provide a
structure for him to build the film on. Th one thing Terry gave me was the
ability to be a better composer. I wrote for nine months without a day
off. It was incredible pressure in the cutting room. 

 Where's the best place to learn the craft these days? 
 I thought the film music course at UCLA wasn't great so I put together
a one-day seminar and taught there. The best training, though, is to just
do it, not study it. You learn through failure. Commericals are a good
place to start. It's about learning the aesthetics. You could also try
becoming someone's apprentice. In LA, I have a whole studio of young
composers learning off me all the time, in the same way that I learn from
stanley all those years back. 

 What about someone who want to get into the business? 
 Ask yourself these questions. How sure am I of my talent? How stubborn
and resilient am I? You need to stick to your guns when the going is
tough. Also see yourself as a film maker, not a composer, because you are
writing, but in a different language. 

 Back to The Thin Red Line Interviews Page