Water and alcohol intake pipe

Caburetor

Filter

Hot gases exiting the engine

Gas exhaust pipe to reactor


The Chambrin Reactor:

Zero Hora had access to a copy of the patent of the invention which includes a sketch of the mechanism, without details of the structure and the internal operation of the reactor

At the request of ZH, two engine specialists helped show how machanism would work, mechanical engineer Jose Murizioel Marcondes Meilo, and Pedro Barbosa Meilo, professor at the Engineering Department of the Federal University of Rio Grande do Sul


The System:

Learn how you could assign the reactor from a sketch registered in France


1. The Frenchman has a system that takes advantage of the gases that leave the car exhaust (normally released into the atmosphere) and directs them to a reactor.

2. At high temperature (800°C), the gases travel through the ratios of the rator before leaving the exhaust outlet at 280°C.

3. The heating increases the fuel intensity (50% water and 50% alcohol) of the copper tubes inside the reactor.

4. Heat causes chemical reactions in the mixture, raising the water to the gaseous state and separating the hydrogen from the oxygen, thus creating the synthesis gas... and possibly other unknown gases.

5. These chemical reactions produce a fuel that is injected into the combustion chambers of the engine, moving the car.


1976:
French mechanical engineer Jean Pierre Marie Chambrin arrives in Alagoas to develop an automotive reactor that allows the car to ride with water and alcohol, a project he created the year before.

1978:
Chambrin moved to Porto Alegre with Maria Elena Knuppuein Almeida, FEE's servant, and years later, the Piratini Palace was interested in the invention, giving rise to experiences in a BM workshop.

1982:
The reactor of Chambrin undergoes critics of technicians of the federal government, generating disagreement with the French, and the government of the State seals the workshop.

1984:
The federal government asks the State for vehicles and equipment used in the experiment to test them, but the gaucho government does not deliver them.

1989:
A victim of an infarction(massive heart attack), Chambrin dies without retrieving his reactor. The memo happens to Maria Elena, seven years later.

2011:
Brigida Military does renovations in the barracks, but it goes away with the workshop still sealed.