Rob Lanphier's Funky Chunky Home Page 

This graphic was an attempt to parody other folks homepages circa 1995 with
the big, ugly photoshop thing of their name. Now, of course, everyone else
has moved on with (slightly) better design, and I've been too lazy to
update this, and so, well, there you have it. 

 About Me (and my family) . 
 svg2swf -A converter from W3C's SVG to Macromedia Flash format. Written in Python.
 Condorcet's Method 

 Interactive
Demo of Condorcet's Method 

 Political
Ranting -Lots of outdated ranting and raving for you to sift through.
Enter at your own risk. 
 Election
Methods Mailing List -Lots of up-to-date ranting from all corners of the globe about mathematical minutia of elections 
 My Advogato Page - This is an open source software website that lets me keep a weblog, which I sometimes update.

 About Me 

I currently work at RealNetworks , the home of
 RealAudio, RealVideo, and all things Real(tm) (no, we don't really
 have a trademark on "Real", though given the choice...). My main
 role is resident Standards Nerd, working on things like SMIL and RTSP . I'd talk about what I do in my spare time, but that usually involves staring at a flashy box in my living room with pretty pictures, or nerding out in front of the computer. Whatever it is I do, one of the things you'll see is that I don't spend a lot of time editing these web pages, because most of the stuff here dates back to 1996.

I wrote an article a while back for Issue #3 of The Perl
Journal , a quarterly magazine dedicated to the Perl programming
language. The article itself is about Condorcet's
method , which is a really elegant way of electing folks in contests
where there must be one and only one winner, such as president, governor,
mayor, or Best Supporting Actress in an Elvis Presley Movie. It's
particularly well suited to elections with three or more candidates (and
thus provides a means for eliminating primary elections). Actually, the
article centered on the program I
wrote for calculating Condorcet winners in a single seat election . 

 My parents run Rebound
Rubber Recycling . They shred up used automobile tires to make rubber
granules and sell them for use in playgrounds and for raw material for
other products. They will eventually produce flat-roof roofing made from
the granules. They also sell used tires in large quantities, if you are
interested in buying a few hundred. 

 Here's my wife's homepage .
She doesn't update her page much, either. 

 This is a list of movies
my father-in-law has worked on . He paints things. I'll let him explain. 

 This is the main Eskimo home page .
It's where my account is, so I thought I'd better put in a plug for them 

External links:

 I'm actually the "maintainer" of this page. I haven't been very
 good about keeping it up to date, but all of the contact
 information is on it so that you can find out the latest.

 National organization mainly promoting proportional representation,
 but also other things like campaign finance reform.

 O'Reilly Network Patent Center. Software patents are a big problem...

 robla@eskimo.com 
robla@real.com