Richard's Junk Page 

 TSAN 
The Sysop Association Network, or TSAN, was the pirate
equivalent of FidoNet. They lasted from 1984 to 1992
and beyond. Here's an ANSI ad for them. 
There are brief mentions in Phrack 
issues 33 and 37, and in this paper. 
Otherwise you will just find it in acronym lists, and in
the occasional ansi on defacto2.net. 

 The International Information Academy 
Vladimir Sachkov's book ``Probabilistic Methods in Combinatorial
Analysis'' mentions on the title page that he is an academician
in the International Information Academy. It is a theoretical
computer science group for information security. There is no home page
for this organisation yet they have 
about 5000 people! Here is the
Moldovan branch but their link to RIIA - the Russian branch - is a 404!
(September 23, 2000) If you're looking for them you're better
off searching for "International Informatization Academy". 
Link added - (November 14 2001) 
thanks to Margo Cheney.
 Canada IIA is here.

 Simon Barere 
A really good pianist. Unfortunately, according to the back of the
Pearl CD, ``his shy and retiring nature rather obscured, and continues
to obscure, a reputation which should be much higher than it is''.
Check out Appian Recordings , 
 Dejanews , and 
 Everything2 for more information.

 Tetris 
Tetris existed in Russia long before it was being sold in the West -
in 1985 in fact. I only have two copies of this - one from 1986 
from the Bosnian abandonware site 
and one from 1988 from co-author 
Vadim Gerasimov's site . They are obviously both written in Turbo
Pascal, yet the source has not been made available. 
If anyone has a 1985 version please contact me.

 Sargon III 
One of the last brute-force chess programs for the PC, probably.
Written by Dan and Kathe Spracklen, IBM adaptation by Kevin E. Leavelle
in 1983.
Read some old unprotection advice for
hard disk owners, which is completely irrelevant unless
you own the original, or download the game. 
Estimated rating 1859 on a 386-25.

 Centaur 
Centaur is a chess program from Russia which has a knowledge-based
search and competed in several World Microcomputer Chess
Championships. Apparently it WON a Soviet Microcomputer Chess
Championship around the early '90s, which shows you how bad the
competition was! Eugene Nalimov, a computer chess guru who now works
at Microsoft, had a comment to make on it on the 
 ICDchess discussion
board here . There is also a demo
version which you can probably find by searching 
 Channel 1 BBS 
for either Centaur or Russoft. And this demo version does not work.

 Smallest prime generation program 
Here is a USENET thread on comp.lang.c about such a program in C.
 Expose on Raymond Keene and Eric Schiller 
Removed from chesscafe.com - by Edward Winter .
Unfortunately it's copyright so can't be reproduced here.

 Free counter