Pruning Rhododendrons 

 Pruning
Rhododendrons 

 One of the most
frequent questions of people new to rhododendrons is whether they
should be pruned, and if so, when? The answer to both is, "It
depends." When Bob Anderson collected boxcars full of native
rhododendrons from the hills of Virginia and North Carolina in
the late 1940s, many of the best (after a few years) specimens
had been broken or chewed to the ground by ranging cows. They
renewed themselves into lush plants in his New Jersey nursery , eventually finding their
way to the New Jersey Turnpike and Garden State Parkway landscaping.
Their recovery illustrates how well some leggy rhododendrons respond
to pruning. However, there are easier and better ways to prune
in your garden. 

 r. rigidum 

 Some rhododendrons,
such as fastigiatum , rarely if ever need
to be pruned. Others, such as rigidum and Sappho , can begin looking leggy
within a year. The most basic rule is to prune a rhododedron to
improve its appearance, whether to make it more dense or to remove
dead or dying parts. You might also want to alter the shape of
a plant, particularly if it was moved from a crowded location
or from a slope. 

 When you buy a
young rhododendron, ask the salesperson about the plant's growth
habit and try to see a mature specimen of the same kind. You can
also check out the pictures in the SPECIMENS section of this website. This will give
you a clue to how much early pruning will be necessary. 

 A good way to
promote denser growth in a young rhododendron with leggy tendencies
is to pinch terminal leaf buds. Often these plants will send out
long new shoots with no branching. The terminal leaf bud produces
a hormone that retards development of dormant buds around its
base. Pinching this bud forces the dormant buds grow, producing
multiple branches. Be sure not to pinch the fatter flower buds,
because, of course, you want the flowers, and also because they
do not produce the inhibiting hormone. 

 If the plant is
older, pinching is usually not sufficient. Move further down the
branch and just above an older leaf rosette. Since most rhododendrons
keep their leaves for more than one year, it is a simple matter
to find these clusters of latent buds. But even where older leaves
are gone, latent buds lie under the bark where the branch once
ended. Look for a ring of bumps and cut just beyond them. Multiple
new shoots should appear from the new branch terminus. 

 I remove many
of the lower branches of larger rhododendrons within the beds
where sunlight is scarce. These branches have few leaves and add
little to the appearance of the plant. Eliminating them helps
to train the big rhododendrons into more of a tree form and makes
it easier to blanket the bed with mulch . 

 If your rhododendron
needs massive pruning, I would spread it out over two or three
years to avoid shock. That way, the new base can become established
before it must sustain the entire plant. 

 The best time
to prune is in the spring, just after flowering but before new
growth begins, or early in bloom if you want trusses for indoor
display. However, what is ideal is not always practical, especially
if you have a large number of rhododendrons. I prune throughout
the year because I can't keep up with 3,000 plants in a month
or two. If you live in a region with harsher winters than our
Puget Sound region, such as the northeastern United States, I
wouldn't prune in the late summer or fall. Late pruning promotes
late new growth that is susceptible to winter injury. 

 There are a few
kind of rhododendrons, such as thomsonii , that do not respond
well to pruning. You can remove branches, but new growth from
latent buds will likely not occur. Too much pruning can kill the
plant. 

 Good pruning improves
the appearance of many rhododendrons. It is not difficult, and
less is usually better than more. Most often the gardener can
do a better job than the cows.