Winter Gardening 

 Introduction History Spring Tour Other Seasons Companion Plants Fruit/Veg/Herbs Work Family Links ARS 

 DESIGN ELEMENTS SPECIMENS TIPS VISITING THE GARDEN GARDEN FURNITURE 

 Winter Gardening What Blooms Here in January? Winter More Winter Winter Paths 

 Winter Gardening 

 Winter can be
 a beautiful season in the garden, but it is quite different from
 other times. Those who try to recreate spring and summer with
 too much blooming will likely be disappointed. A few plants will
 flower, but their beauty lies in sparseness rather than profusion.
 The dominant effects of cold weather and short days can be cultivated
 rather than struggled over. 

 The first requirement
 for enjoying winter gardening is not plants or equipment, but
 suitable clothing. Maslow tells us that in the hierarchy of human
 needs, the higher ones will not emerge if the lower ones are
 frustrated. Aesthetic enjoyment is impossible when you are cold.
 On the other hand, if your hands and feet and everything else
 are toasty and dry, even a walk in a winter storm can be an exhilarating
 experience. 
 I wear ski gloves.
 Amazingly tough, with stitching that doesn't rot like most work
 gloves, they last me about four winters. Insulated rubber boots
 are absolutely dry and warm. Rather than a heavy coat, I wear
 a windproof shell over up to three layers of thin Polartec. The
 layers are easy to adjust as temperatures rise or exertion increases.
 A waterproof, insulated hat that can cover my ears completes
 the strange picture. 

 Now that you are ready to
 venture out, what are the experiences and tasks well suited to
 winter? 

 For experiences, I like to
 walk, sit on benches, and look at plants up close. (After observing
 Moscow women enjoying themselves on park benches in frigid weather
 most Northwesterners wouldn't go out in, I realized dressing
 right opens up a new world.) Some of the sights that interest
 me are mosses , bark ,
 lichens, and small details that can be overwhelmed by leaves
 and flowers. I like to look through the silhouettes of deciduous
 trees to winter skies. Often, the low sun angles create luminous
 colors not seen at other times of the year. I like to watch all
 the birds, not just on the feeders, but in the plants and on
 the ground. And finally, I like to experience the winter weather--the
 wind, the snow, the downpours, and the fog. 

 Winter is also for enjoying
 work. Some tasks, such as building garden
 furniture , are done only because now there is time. Others,
 such as transplanting, are saved since it is the best time. 

 Winter here is a good time
 to spread new gravel on paths, mulch the rhododendrons, and design
 new beds and pocket gardens, 

 It is also the best time
 to work on this website. 

 Winter
Gardening--What Blooms Here in January? Winter Paths 

 Introduction History Spring Tour Other Seasons Companion Plants Fruit/Veg/Herbs Work Family Links ARS 

 DESIGN ELEMENTS SPECIMENS TIPS VISITING THE GARDEN GARDEN FURNITURE