open learning hypnosis 3 

 Locations 

 Solutions in Hypnosis an on-line learning opportunity building on an Ericksonian approach with Dr. Robert McNeilly In this third module, we will focus on and refine the application of the principles from the first two modules to specific clinical situations including problems of mood, pain, relationships. In this programme we will refine how we can apply these principles to: anxiety depression panic disorder phobias healing trauma pain management habit control - cigarette, weight, sleep, etc. relationship issues including sexual problems all in a mood of respectful lightness and safety so that whatever our levels of experience, we can find our own individual version of this method and apply it to our work readily and immediately. Structure On the web page, there are written notes, recorded lectures and videos of demonstrations. Most people say they like to take 1 - 2 weeks for each section, but you can make your own pace, and revisit any section whenever you wish. After reading, listening and viewing, practicing with a colleague, client or friend, and joining the website conversation with others, a shared and extended learning experience will evolve. Preliminary defining individual learning goals read and listen to introductory comments. 1 anxiety 2 depression 3 healing trauma 4 pain management 5 habits 6 more habits 7 relationships and sex 8 evaluation and consolidation of the learning Face to face Workshops These can be arranged with me in Hobart and Peter Thorneycroft in Melbourne and involve additional cost. Other locations will be organised depending on numbers. Participants are welcome to repeat this programme without charge at any time in the future without limitation. Registration [essential]: Programme - SOH 3 on-line Name Address phone email Payment $495 [$A450 outside Australia] Direct deposit to CBA North Hobart BSB 067 028 Account #1023 2600 Dr Robert McNeilly or Credit Card via PayPal country Australia $495.00 Outside Australia $450.00 Further learning. This programme functions as the third of 3 modules of the Diploma of Solution Oriented Hypnosis . cet home