From eskimo!uunet!newstf01.news.aol.com!newsbf01.news.aol.com!not-for-mail Mon Dec  5 15:55:06 1994
Xref: eskimo alt.mindcontrol:1306
Path: eskimo!uunet!newstf01.news.aol.com!newsbf01.news.aol.com!not-for-mail
From: wha33@aol.com (Wha33)
Newsgroups: alt.mindcontrol
Subject: *seeking info: GWEN (w/Robert Becker excerpt,short)*
Date: 3 Dec 1994 14:20:15 -0500
Organization: America Online, Inc. (1-800-827-6364)
Lines: 100
Sender: news@newsbf01.news.aol.com
Message-ID: <3bqgdf$3ai@newsbf01.news.aol.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: newsbf01.news.aol.com


I'm seeking further info on something called the 'Ground-Wave Emergency
Network" a nation-wide military communication system of VLF transmitters
apparently already in place across the U.S. The first and only reference
I've found to GWEN comes from the book Cross Currents by Robert Becker,
author of The Body Electric . The pages concerning GWEN are excerpted
below. While Dr. Becker may muffle his suspicions concerning a more
sinister purpose to GWEN, his arguments concerning EMP and GWEN hint that
he may privately feel otherwise. It certainly makes one wonder what the
real purpose of this system might be. Anyone with any info or ideas
concerning GWEN is urged to post here and/or send email.


< excerpted from Cross Currents: The Startling Effects of Electro-Magnetic
Radiation on your Health  by Dr. Robert O. Becker (Bloomsbury Publishing,
1991- ISBN 0 7475 0761 9) >

The Ground-Wave Emergency Network (GWEN)

(...) GWEN is a communications system currently under construction that
operates in the very low frequency (VLF) range, with transmissions between
150 and 175 kHz. This VLF range was selected because its signals travel by
means of ground waves- electromagnetic fields that hug the ground- rather
than by radiating into the atmosphere. The signals drop off sharply with
distance, and a single GWEN station transmits to a 360-degree circle
radiating out from it to a distance of about 250 to 300 miles.

The GWEN system consists of approximately 300 such stations, each with a
tower 300-500 feet high. The stations are spaced from 200 to 250 miles
apart, so that a signal can go from coast to coast by hopping from one
station to another. When the system is completed in the early 1990's, the
entire civilian population of the United States will be exposed to the
GWEN transmissions.

The rationale for the existence of this network is the government's
concept that nuclear war is winnable if a fail-safe communications system
is available for use during and following a nuclear attack. Such a system
would permit the United States to order its nuclear-missile submarine
fleet to launch an attack against the aggressor nation. The physical
nature of nuclear war requires that this system operate by ground-wave
transmission.

Electromagnetic Pulse (EMP)

One aspect of nuclear war that is not well publicized is the EMP
phenomenon. An electromagnetic pulse  is a very short, intense burst of
electromagnetic energy that is produced by the explosion of a nuclear
weapon in space. If an EMP were produced by a nuclear explosion 100 miles
above Kansas City, its energy would be so intense that it would shut off
all electric-power systems, destroy all computers and magnetic disks or
tape records, destroy the guidance systems of missiles and the computer
and communications systems of military and commercial aircraft, and shut
down all radio communications- across the entire United States <emphasis
author's>.  The military organism would be decapitated. In the military
scenario, the United States would then be faced with capitulation or
nuclear destruction.

Theoretically, ground-wave communications would still be possible.
However, the theory is tenuous. The GWEN hardware is transistor based;
even if placed in "hardened" bunkers, it would be vulnerable to an EMP. In
addition, the EMP would produce major ground currents in the path of the
GWEN signals that could decrease their transmission capabilities. Finally,
the locations of all GWEN stations are known to the Soviets and thus are
vulnerable to attack.

Nevertheless, the military mind has conceived of using the GWEN network to
maintain communications following such a decapitating EMP attack. This is
not the place for a full argument concerning the values and options of
nuclear war, but in my opinion the reason for the existence of GWEN is
specious. Nuclear war is not winnable.

And the potential harm to the civilian population has not been addressed.
I am concerned not only because of the of the data summarized in chapter
8, but because of the potential for behavioral and cognitive that have
been discussed in this book. GWEN is a superb system, in combination with
cyclotron resonance*, for producing behavioral alterations in the civilian
population. The average strength of the steady geomagnetic field varies
from place to place across the United States. Therefore, if one wished to
resonate a specific ion in living things in a specific locality, one would
require a specific frequency for that location. The spacing of GWEN
transmitters 200 miles apart across the United States would allow such
specific frequencies to be "tailored" to the geomagnetic-field strength in
each GWEN area. While I doubt that this potential use has occurred to the
planners of the GWEN network, or that such action could be deliberately
taken by any portion of the federal government, the mere existence
<emphasis author's> of the GWEN system may, at some future date, prove
irresistible. 

<end of excerpt>

* Defined in Cross Currents as : " ... a mechanism of action that enables
very low-strength electromagnetic fields, acting in concert with the
Earth's geomagnetic field, to produce major biological effects by
concentrating the energy in the energy in the applied field upon specific
particles, <emphasis author's> such as the biologically important ions of
sodium, calcium, potassium, and lithium. " and "(...has nothing to do with
the cyclotron, an early type of particle accelerator used in atomic
physics)." See the book for a fuller explanation of various kinds of
resonance.


