OLD TAOS HUM MESSAGES
(Note dates)


Date: 02-Jun-94  09:15:50
Fm: william beaty 
To: Sara T. Allen 

Do you know what kind of measurements have been done on the hum?  I've always
been curious about whether anyone has tried interferometry with microphones
widely separated in order to do direction finding.  I could imagine that it
might fail by revealing the direction of sound to be from above or below.  But
has anyone done this?  It might be as simple as: connect two microphones to the
same amplifier input, place them many feet apart, listen to the amplified sound
with headphones, then have someone move the microphones in a big circle until
the hum is minimized. the line between the microphones will then be broadside
to the direction that the "hum" travels.

Oh, if you want to reply, you should probably use e-mail, since I only check in
here rarely.






Date: 03-Jun-94  23:11:29
Fm: william beaty 
To: Sara T. Allen 

A question: are any combinations of mics, amps, and headphones effective in
amplifying the hum?  If so, it's probably acoustic.  If not...

I'm convinced that some people can 'hear' non-acoustic energy.  About five
years ago a woman came into the Museum of Science to track down a noise
she heard "inside" hear head there.  She was suffering from loud noises in
her head while at home, headaches, loss of sleep, etc., and she remembered
something at the M.O.S. in Boston which produced the same effect.  We
tried a number of devices, and the offending sources turned out to be
tabletop vacuumtube tesla coils, as well as large tesla plasma sphere and
a plasma tube.  We tried a doubleblind test, and she responded perfectly
to the plasma spheres.  In fact, she had to be 20' away from them or the
pain/noise was too great.  She described the effect as coming from inside
her head, and as being different from sound. (I also read some recent
research that found iron in the human sphenoid bones, and bio-iron
crystals in human brain tissue.  Natural radio receivers?  A compass-based
navigation sense?)





Date: 04-Jun-94  22:21:00
Fm: Robert  
To: william beaty 

Magnetite crystals have been found in living organisms that are both magnetic
(apparently used for navigation) and superparamagnetic.  The latter are used to
detec local variations in magnetic field.  For example, certain honeybees have
approx. 600 hairs descending from their bodies which are strung with
superparamagnetic crystals; the magnetic domains terminate on a neuron which is
also  directly connected to the bee's optic nerve.  These ganglion cells are
thought to integrate visual with local magnetic maps.  A recent report in
Nature showed that a certain species of bird which can normally orient itself
to the earth's magnetic field loses the ability to do so when exposed only to
red light.  It was proposed that rhodopsin molecules may be excited into a
superparamagnetic state by sufficiently energetic photons.  That is, the
rhodopsin molecules may serve double duty as local field sensors.  If this is
true, one wonders whether a small percentage of humans may still have this
sensitivity (perception of auras?).  The magnetite grains found in the human
brain appear to be diffusely distributed.  There are many cases on record of
people who could "hear" the aurora borealis, which is almost certainly an
induced electromagnetic effect due to the heigth of that display (though local
brush discharges may be the cause in some cases).  Robert Becker has suggested
that solar storms distort the geomagnetic field and that such distortions can
produce psychological effects.  Michael Persinger has shown that the temporal
lo











Date: 23-Oct-94  10:28:52
Fm: Sara T. Allen 
To: Jeff 

 >> Just wondering: any hum increase, say from about the end of August through
the end of September (and beyond, maybe?)?

 I'm wondering because I was aware of a number of folks, feeling a sense of
urgency or emergency during that span. <<

 Yes, there have been several intensity increases beginning with the Korean
Crisis, lasting through the Haitian Crisis and especially with the recent Iraqi
troop movements. Right now it is still very intense with no reported world
crisis taking place. Watch the news, I expect something critical to break
having to do with another outbreak of tensions within the next two weeks,
perhaps related to the latest Israel bombing and their possible response to it.

 Me, I've just been getting monster headaches with a sense of urgency to get
rid of the damn things! Of course I am aware of the real world tie in to the
hum, that is, it is a man made phenomenon and really not mysterious at all,
therefore I don't allow it to affect my tension level as regards to world
events. I will not be manipulated that easily.

 Sara

- Sara T. Allen, Written 23-Oct-1994 @ 10:43:03




Date: 23-Oct-94  15:16:09
Fm: william beaty 
To: Sara T. Allen 

I'm curious as to what has been tried in reducing/eliminating the hum.  For
instance, does the "mu-metal bucket on the head" technique do anything at all?
Does the "teslar" scalar shield wristband have any effect?  I recall your
mentioning of tests in faraday cages and deep basements having no effect.  Has
there been any progress made towards getting funding for studying the
phenomena? - Bill Beaty




Date: 23-Oct-94  17:53:35
Fm: Sara T. Allen 
To: william beaty 

 >>  does the "mu-metal bucket on the head" <<

 The last time I priced mu-metal it was really, really, really expensive. Close
to $10,000 just for the material which then needs to be annealed after
construction of a small box. Estimate of about $20,000 to $25,000 to try this.

 Regular metal grounded pot on head does nothing to stop the hum. Galvanized
steel, Faraday (type) cage, does nothing to stop it.

 >>  Does the "teslar" scalar shield wristband <<

 I tried a friend's teslar watch with no success at stopping the hum although
the ether seemed lighter to me. (not as oppressive, subjective.)


 >>  I recall your mentioning of tests in faraday cages and deep basements
having no effect. <<

 In addition, recently, a friend descended 650 feet into a mine shaft in
Michigan and noted that the hum actually seemed to increase 10 - 15% !!

 >> Has there been any progress made towards getting funding for studying the
phenomena? <<

 The only funding awarded to date has been Jim Kelly at the University of New
Mexico for experimenting with low frequency oto-acoustic emission detection
hardware and software. The initial results of the spring survey indicate that
about 12% of the respondents (1,300 approx total respondents) reportedly sense
the hum.

 I see that you are from Seattle. Do you know Buzz Towne?

 Sara


 - Sara T. Allen, Written 23-Oct-1994 @ 18:45:18






Date: 23-Oct-94  21:45:26
Fm: Sara T. Allen 
To: Stormdancer 

 >> Has anyone measured it yet? amplitude? frequency? <<

 No. And not for lack of trying.

 >> someone should build a frequency-selective measuring device,
 and map intensities in each intersection, up & down each
 street measure intensity every block. <<

 You can't plot what you can't measure.


 >> freq-sel devices are not very hard to build once you know the
 freq or band you want to measure
 <<

 The investigative team has instrumentation that covers all frequency bands
from DC to beyond 20 GIGAHERTZ. Nothing showed up in electromagnetic, magnetic,
geophysical, acoustic or electro static frequencies. The transducer we used to
measure low frequency sound was very sensitive and didn't confirm the presence
of the hum. It is theorized that it is carrier-less transmitter which is
responsible. There are clusters of people who sense the hum in the midwest near
the ELF site in Michigan and in Washington, and Idaho states near the ELF/VLF
site there.

 Jet Propulsion labs recently published a paper on "Optimum Detection of Slow
Frequency Hopping Signals" which provides some background on the difficulty of
detecting "camouflaged" signals.

 Sara

- Sara T. Allen, Written 23-Oct-1994 @ 22:30:23





Date: 24-Oct-94  16:47:19
Fm: Alain 
To: Sara T. Allen 

 >> I think that is exactly what is happening!   <<

But does not explain why it would increase before major world events though.
Unless, they would know how to get the Earth to irradiate some frequencies at
some given locations.

I found the info that I wanted to tell you. It's about the HAARP project.

The US is going ahead with the HF Active Auroral Ionospheric Research Program
(HAARP) involving USAF, US Navy's Office of Naval Research, ARCO Power to
enhance C3 capabilities. The purpose is to develop high frequency ionospheric
heating capabilities to:

1) generate ELF (70-150 Hz) for submarine communications.

2) geophysical probing of ionospheric processes

3) creation of ionospheric lenses for military purposes

4) ionize pathways by electron acceleration for infrared, optical and radio
wave propagation in the ionosphere

5) generate new geomagnetic alignments to control reflection and scattering
properties of radio waves

6) create ionospheric "mirrors" for HF/VHF/UHF surveillance of flying objects.

The heating involves 1 Gigawatt (at 1 MHz to 15 MHz) from a 30 acre antenna
farm in Gakona, Alaska and will operate in tandem with a Brazilian ionospheric
modification program (BIME) and the Navy's RED AIR program.

It is a follow up on various Soviet facilities (1 GW in Niir (Dushanbe), Sura
(400 MW), Gorkiy (20 MW) and Monchegorsk (10 MW) which were by defense
estimates more advanced than Western facilities in Arecibo, Puerto Rico (80
MW), Fairbanks (80 MW) and the Max Planck facility in Tromso, Norway (1 GW).

It is reported that the project poses so many uncertainties that existing
military bases refused to house it and many scientists consider this as
unlawful and dangerous experimentation while the congress has already rejected
funding in 1989 for it.

Details available from:

 Clare Zickuhr
 5316 Shorecrest Drive
 Anchorage, Alaska  99515
 Tel: 907-248-8189
 Fax: 907-248-2283

So had you heard of that one before? That means quite many watts in the air! No
wonder scientists are detecting gree house effects!






Date: 24-Oct-94  17:44:02
Fm: william beaty 
To: Sara T. Allen 

Buzz Towne?  Doesn't ring a bell.  In the past I've hung out with some "weird
science" types here, Dale with the giant tesla coil, Frank "Merlin" Sztazny, &
Gary Hawkins with the giant capacitor bank.

I was thinking about the "active shield wall" suggestion I made months ago.  It
might not be necessary to build an entire room-sized matrix of coils in order
to cancel ELF magnetism in a small space.  If humans sense the Hum with their
heads and not their entire bodies, then it might be possible to wind a few 1ft.
coils, run them with a negative feedback setup that cancels low-freq signals,
and stick the thing on the head of a sensitive person to see if it has any
effect.

A similar test could be done with low frequency sound.  A "sound cancellation"
device will reduce the sound energy in a space around itself, and this space is
a good fraction of a wavelength.  Since audible sound has a wavelength on the
scale of inches, sound cancellation devices are normally like headphones. But a
subsonic canceller would kill the low-freq sound for several feet around
itself.  It wouldn't be too hard to set one up: a stereo power amp and a
subwoofer speaker, some sort of filter, an a microphone with response going
down to DC.  The microphone might have to be built custom, maybe using a
lightbeam bounced off a diaphragm, or some other position sensor connected to a
diaphragm.  If I knew someone locally who was sensitive to the Hum, I might be
tempted to rent some equipment and try it.  I DO have a 4-year old daughter,
meaning that my spare time is quite limited right now!

- Bill










Date: 24-Oct-94  21:12:58
Fm: Sara T. Allen 
To: Stormdancer 

 >> can anyone who hears it match the sound with an audo oscillator into a
speaker?
 I hope I don't sound condecending, I just don't know what has already been
tried.
 <<

 The process is called "hum matching". I spent several hours putting together a
simulation of what I am sensing. It requires three audio oscillators. One of
them needs to be able to be modulated with a small amount of FM.

 Starting with a 32 Hz sine wave, add two 64 HZ sine wave into the mix and try
to zero beat the two 64 HZ oscillators as closely as possible. When they are as
close to zero beat as you can possibly get them add a slight amount of FM to
one of the 64 HZ signals. Record it to DAT tape and play it back at threshold
of hearing through a regular home stereo system and you will get an idea of
what the phenomenon sounds like.

 Also, an audio oscillator can be used to zero beat against the phenomenon
which is what I did to get the 32 HZ and 64 HZ frequencys. To get a beat
frequency you need two sources. One being the phenomenom which we were unable
to measure on sophisticated listening devices the other being the audio
oscillator. The beat frequency is clearly detectable, but the reason why is
unexplainable at this point.

 Sara


 - Sara T. Allen, Written 24-Oct-1994 @ 21:59:58







Date: 31-Oct-94  19:55:07
Fm: Sara T. Allen 
To: Alain 

Alain,

 >> That's what they call tintinnitus. It's a sort of oscillation that occurs
within the ear. It is actually some sound being produced in there. <<

 My grandmother told me that you hear it (tintinnitus) when someone walks over
your grave. ? :{} booo!

 Happy Halloween!

 I got word this week that the Sightings episode has been expanded and will be
shown sometime in November. The Encounters people are working on a segement to
be aired in January which is taking the focus off of Taos and concentrating on
the widespread aspect of the phenom.

 Our friend, James Garner, (NOT the actor), from ABQ is going to descend into a
3,000 foot mine shaft with our friend Hal, from Hancock, MI, to see if he can
record the hum there. Hal reports that the hum is about 15 -20% stronger at the
650 foot level. Apparently, James has devised a method of recording the hum
using piezoelectric transducers. I haven't had a chance to talk at length with
him as to the particulars, however, I did hear a poor quality copy of a tape
that he made, and one of the incidents recorded sounded exactly like the phenom
I am hearing.

 I am working with a friend here in Taos to produce a one hour segment of our
own which will get into the history of the hum as well as some brief technical
discussions and speculations. We are planning for it to be shown on our local
public access channel but are considering it for wider release if it turns out
well.

 Sara of the Taos Hum

 - Sara T. Allen, Written 31-Oct-1994 @ 20:53:43


    
    



Date: 01-Nov-94  06:49:35
Fm: Sara T. Allen 
To: Alain 

 >> Are you saying that they also tried lower and it was weaker? <<

 No. They haven't yet gone to the 3,000 foot level. Just talked to Hal and
there may be some masking problems at that depth because the ventilation system
needs to be kept operating. Jim says he can filter it out.

 >>  Can they record an amplitude, a frequency, and a modulation pattern? <<

 So far just a demodulated sound. I really need to call Jim and get the lowdown
on his methodology. Sort of been putting it off because of too many phone calls
$$$$. Now it has gotten to the point where I can't use second hand info and I
should go right to the horses mouth.

 Sara of the Taos Hum


 - Sara T. Allen, Written 31-Oct-1994 @ 23:15:45









Date: 01-Nov-94  19:22:21
Fm: william beaty 
To: Sara T. Allen 

> How can a human accurately sense phase?

This could be done only if the Hum is audio, and so is propagating at about
1100 ft/sec, and the frequency is pretty stable.  To do it, you listen to an
oscillator that is adjusted to give a slow beat note, a couple times a second,
have the person hit a button in time with the beat and measure the frequency
difference, then move the whole setup and look for changes in the timing of the
beat note. Or alternatly, you could adjust a oscillator over many minutes to
maintain a cancellation of part of the Hum wave, then move the setup and see if
a beat note happens in sync with the motion.  What kind of motion?  Well, 50 hz
has a 10ft. wavelenght, so if you move at 10 ft/sec, you will hear a 1hz beat
note (if the oscillator is first adjusted for zero beat.)

Oops.  I just realized that the short answer is: either move the human while
using a reference oscillator, or use more than one human simultaneously.

All this is moot if a piezo sensor can be used as a Hum microphone!


    
    
Date: 01-Nov-94  19:57:39
Fm: Sara T. Allen 
To: william beaty 

 >> This could be done only if the Hum is audio, <<

 Darn, I'm fairly certain that there is no audio component to this thing. We
have used very sensitive laboratory calibrated microphones and could not pick
up an audio correlation to the beat frequency that the audio oscillator was
producing. The night that I discovered this, Horace Poteet of Sandia National
Lab and I were sitting in the equipment van armed with a vast array of sensing
equipment. Both he and I were sure that we were going to capture the hum on
tape. After hours of monitoring and watching our screens and adjusting and
making measurement after measurement we looked at each other and agreed that
the "hum" is not an acoustic phenomenon. Both he and I can sense the hum in the
environment so we knew that it was present at the site of the attempted
measurements.

 I haven't yet had confirmation on the piezo transducer.

 One thing that I can say about the hum though is that it's intensity doesn't
vary from place to place in a given area like North Central New Mexico. If it
is at a particular intensity at my home it will be at that same intensity at my
transmitter site or at the lake or across town or across the county. The
intensity does vary from time to time however. It was down in intensity for
awhile on Saturday and I thought we might get a few days of relative quiet but
Sunday Morning it was at high intensity again and has remained so through this
evening.

 Thanks for your suggestions. Keep making them, something might just click.

 Sara


 - Sara T. Allen, Written 01-Nov-1994 @ 20:54:57





Date: 02-Nov-94  15:49:37
Fm: william beaty 
To: Sara T. Allen 

Is it an impossible task to zero-beat the several hum frequencies and at least
temporarily cancel the hum via headphones?  I realize that the oscillators
would drift in phase relationship to the hum unless they could be somehow
dynamically adjusted.  Doing all this might not be valuable for anything, but
since an audio signal DOES beat with the perceived HUM, the implication is that
the "sound" of the hum can be cancelled with a perfectly- adjusted set of audio
oscillators.  Might be neat to try.

Too bad that the hum is not acoustic.  The wavelength of 60HZ EM is a bit
longer than tens of feet!!

- Bill B.




Date: 02-Nov-94  19:46:51
Fm: Sara T. Allen 
To: william beaty 

 >> Is it an impossible task to zero-beat the several hum frequencies and at
least temporarily cancel the hum via headphones? <<

 It doesn't cancel at zero beat. I believe it is because of a phase shift in
the phenom.


 - Sara T. Allen, Written 02-Nov-1994 @ 20:13:14


    
    
Date: 02-Nov-94  19:46:46
Fm: Sara T. Allen 
To: All

OK,

 Here is the skinney on the piezo electric device transducer developed by James
Garner in Albuquerque.

 After cracking open an over the counter piezo electric high frequency speaker
and removing the piezo device and soldering it perpendicular to a copper clad
circuit board, sort of like a Pressure Zone microphone, and adding a square
coil of wire to the top of the piezo device, then taking the output of the
piezo and applying it to a 2 stage high gain darlington circuit and using
passive r/c networks to filter out unwanted stuff, the output was applied
directly to another series of high gain discrete transistor amps with each
transistor hand balanced with bias at mid point, he was able to record the
result to tape. It is not a perfect reproduction but close enough for me to
recognize it as the (Taos Hum) phenomenom.

 Unfortunately, during a demonstration for 60 minutes ( I wasn't aware that
they had made a 60 minutes segment on the hum, but I don't know everything,) a
year or so ago, his very old o'scope passed the smoke test and made smoke
thereby applying high voltage to his circuitry destroying it as well. All that
remains is a tape recording of the output and a video tape (which CBS has) of
the o'scope presentation along with the hum.

 He doesn't have schematics :( but gave a very good description of the
circuitry, keep it simple. He spent the entire month of December 1992 (I think)
balancing each transistor. He used 2N2222 general purpose transistors with 2 in
the preamp, and 15 in the secondary. At one point he described a feed back loop
he set up by applying the output of the piezo to the circuit and then to his
hi-fi speakers and caused what he said was a fascinating display of rumbling
and shaking of his neighborhood and calls from his neighbors asking what the
heck he was doing. Reminded me of the Tesla building shaking device
description.

 The piezo device is interesting. Anyone know exactly the composition of a
piezo transducer? He said it is a piece of metallized plastic that when
stretched outputs a voltage, (reminded me of some of the stuff Brazel found in
Roswell.) (How would that work for UFO propulsion, an entire craft made up of a
flexible, variable crystalline matrix.) My understanding is that the transducer
has a crystalline matrix structure which when vibrated by audio wave forms
produces a sound and vice versa, when stimulated by a sound, produces a
voltage.

 I don't know if or when I will get the time to construct such a device, but I
have all winter to draw up the schematics and do some breadboarding of my own.
I wonder if a balanced op amp instrumentation circuit to cut down on common
mode signals instead of the discrete device would be an improvement. Along with
selectable, adjustable, low pass, high pass and bandpass circuitry it just may
do the trick. Right up my alley. James said that he recommends using the
passive filtering over active filtering. He is going to try to rebuild his
circuit also and has given me his cooperation in developing my own here.

 More later, I'm hungry.

 Sara

- Sara T. Allen, Written 02-Nov-1994 @ 20:40:38






Date: 08-Nov-94  17:32:52
Fm: Sara T. Allen 
To: Alain 

 >>> My meeting with Congressman  Richardson left me discouraged.  <<

 Why is that so? <<

 He basically spoke out of the other side of his mouth this time, guess it was
because he was on camera. His track record to date on this is in March of 1993
he came out and said "Yes it is the military that is causing it."

 Then the DOD denied it and Bill relaxed his stance.

 Then I wrote him a letter in which he claimed to believe that the hum was real
and that it is "imperative" that the source be found and stopped.

 When the contents of the letter were brought up to him on Saturday he said
that he didn't think his constituency was interested in this issue, that he
believed it to be a natural phenomenon, and that he didn't believe that anyone
was suffering from it.

 After the interview I pointed out that the hum is widespread and that I am in
touch with people nationwide who claim to be having adverse health effects,
etc. etc. etc. He said he would once again have his intelligence committee look
into it.

 That's why.

 Sara


 - Sara T. Allen, Written 08-Nov-1994 @ 18:25:07


    
Date: 08-Nov-94  17:34:08
Fm: william beaty 
To: Alain 

> Yes. But it would not be considered an objective measurement.

But humans can be 'used ' as transducers to make objective measurements if the
humans can report the cadence of the beat between the Hum and an audio
oscillator.  For example, if the Hum frequency is fairly stable, then the audio
oscillator can be varied, and the human will respond by tapping out a rhythm
that varies in frequency and phase with changes in the oscillator freq., and
several isolated human listeners hearing a beat note from the same oscillator
will tap out the same rhythem, and all of them will follow changes in the
oscillator.

Of course this might not work if the Hum frequency drifts around, or if the
beat note is so weak that the human listeners have trouble reporting its
rhythem.

This would be a fun experiment to perform, but if a physical transducer is
discovered, there wouldn't be much point.

- Bill B.





    
    
    
Date: 09-Nov-94  06:15:02
Fm: Sara T. Allen 
To: Rick 

 >>  there would be some trouble still in detecting those low frequency
acoustic waves which would probably be very low power too. <<

 They are very low power emanations from the ear, if they exist at all, which
is the stated goal of the experiment being carried out by Jim Kelly at UNM. The
last I heard was that they had gotten the equipment to -20 dbspl using noise
cancellation circuits, that is quite impressive but still not enough.

 I know that there is a piece of equipment that will detect and record this
signal, it just happens to be classified. I have recently gotten some
corroboration from Gov. Svc. people that such a thing exists, that it is
operational, that it is being used for worldwide sub com, that it is probably
operating in the 7 hz region (alpha wave alert!), and that LANL is assisting in
some way. Also, that the fact that some people are sensitive to it and can act
as detectors is a side effect that was unforeseen and they don't know what to
do about it.

 I should be hearing today if I am off to Seattle for the weekend ABC affiliate
interview. It sounds like it could be a fun trip to meet some of the people
that I only know from C-space in 3d.

 Sara

 - Sara T. Allen, Written 09-Nov-1994 @ 07:11:29





