The Riess Institute - Wells 

 Riess Wells 

The supply of water that Stephan Riess found by locating and drilling
wells into rock is both constant and enduring. 

Several current
examples of his wells, among many, are a verification of Stephan Riess'
work and stand as a testament to his vision and foresight
today: 

 1. Lakeside, California 

Sparkletts
Drinking Water, now owned by McKesson Foods of Pasadena, was on the brink
of disaster because their water source began to fail in 1955. Burton
Arnds, the then-President of Sparkletts, heard of Stephan Riess and
invited him, as a last resort, to help them find water. Riess found a new
well 500 feet lower than the original well and located a second well as
back-up, which, never needed

to this day, continues to be kept in reserve. Forty years later, in 1995,
the well is producing more than 300 gallons per minute of pure high-grade
water. 

 2. Thermal, California 

Riess drilled a well into
the rocky heights overlooking dry

and barren flatland. The well created a small lake supporting a 450 acre
citrus orchard. It has been replenishing the land for now over a quarter
of a century. 

 3. Camarillo, California 

In 1945, Riess' wife
learned that a family was about to lose their farm and be foreclosed on
due to lack of water for their crops and asked her husband to help. Riess
punched a well less than 300 feet deep in 4 1/2 days, with a flow of pure
water at 700 gallons per minute. 

 4. Ramona, California 

Riess located three deep wells on a thoroughbred stud farm. The land
was formerly arid and barren but was converted to lush pasturage in the
1970's, thus creating a multi-million dollar oasis for blooded race
horses. 

 5. Cottonwood, Idaho 

In 1955 the city of Cottonwood
was running out of water and the traditional expert geologists the city
had hired to find water declared that there was no hope of success. The
city then turned to Stephan Riess. Riess immediately located two wells for
them. The first generated more than 250 gallons per minute, the second,
over 500 gallons per minute. At the city's request, Riess came back in
1968 to locate a third well for Cottonwood's future expansion which
produced over 550 gallons per minute. All three wells continue to supply
the city of Cottonwood today as they did over 25 years ago. 

 6. Eilat, Israel 

Riess was invited by then-prime minister David
Ben-Gurion to help find water for the new city of Eilat in the Negev
Desert. In May of 1959 Riess struck water at a depth of just over 700 feet
through solid granite. The Jerusalem Post estimated that
this well produces enough water to supply a city of 100,000 people.

 7. Puebla, Oaxaca and Baja, Mexico 

In the late 1940's,
Riess was invited to come to Mexico and found wells in all three of these
Mexican cities that are supplying water for their inhabitants. 

 8.
Escondido, California 

Riess and his successor, Morad Eghbal, each
located several wells in the late 1970's on private property both for the
personal use of the owner as well as for the commercial water development
for surrounding towns that needed to purchase water. These wells are in
operation and
producing today. 

 9. Hamilton, Massachusetts 

In the early 1980's, Riess came east
and along with Morad Eghbal confirmed well sites and set up the Totten
Field Laboratory. Three wells were drilled into granite and related
stucture and are producing in excess of 350 gallons per minute from
fractures between 200 and 1600 feet deep. The scientific water and
geological research conducted by the Riess Institute documents and
verifies Stephan Riess' theories. This decade long research continues. 

 This site best viewed with IE3.0 or higher. 
This site maintained by David Ross