Interview with the MRA President 

 Thanks to ART Magazine for sending this in electronic form and
giving permission to reprint it on the Lister and website. 

 Advanced Rescue Technology Magazine 
Jan/Feb 1999. Volume 2, Number 1 
Summer Communications 
7626 Densmore Ave 
Van Nuys, CA 91406-2042 
 rtmag@earthlink.net 

 Q&A

 Tim Kovacs, WEMT-P 

 A discussion of the specialized field of mountain rescue

 As hiking, climbing and other mountain-based recreational pursuits
continue to grow in popularity, there will be an increased need for
personnel who are specially trained to deal with the unique medical
emergencies that take place in the high country. 

 Advanced Rescue Technology's Senior Editor/Staff Writer Mike
Spivak recently spoke with Tim Kovacs, a wilderness-trained paramedic
and EMS administrator for Terros Behavioral Systems, in Phoenix, AZ,
and the current president of the Mountain Rescue Association (MRA),
in Golden, CO, on the unique field of mountain rescue. 

 RT : What is the history and function of the Mountain Rescue
Association? 

 Kovacs : The MRA was founded in 1958 in the state of
Washington. The association's mission is to provide mountain rescue
responses and mountain safety education. The MRA, which has 85 units
spread across the United States, Canada and other countries, is the
only group in the U.S. that certifies and accredits rescue teams in
the three main mountain rescue disciplines: wilderness search;
technical rope; and snow and ice rescue. It is designed to unite
different teams to share knowledge, improve rescue techniques and
develop guidelines. 

 RT : Are mountain search and rescues performed mostly by
paid or volunteer providers? 

 Kovacs : Fully 99% of search and rescues in the United
States are still responded to and operated by volunteer or non-profit
units. We&#130;ve been trying to educate people that no matter what
they hear about charging for rescues, we will never let that be a
factor in responding. We will respond regardless of whether you have
money or insurance. In terms of call volume, a typical MRA team
handles 25 to 60 calls per year, but it can vary from squads that
answer only 1 call per year to squads that answer 300 calls per
year. 

 RT : What distinguishes mountain rescue from other types of
rescue, particularly urban search and rescue? 

 Kovacs : For one, the type of equipment used. We use all of
the ropes and carabiner hardware, but we also carry items that can be
used for multiple purposes, since we&#130;re going to be more focused
on things that can be used for multiple tasks. We might use 7/16"
rope instead of 1/2" rope, which is standard in urban search and
rescue. We might use aluminum and lightweight carabiners and hardware
rather than full steel because we need to have lightweight and
compact equipment, since we have to carry these items on our
backs. 

 We might take along a Bauman Bag, which is a large Cordura nylon
bag that converts into a rigid stretcher when you put a backboard or
vacuum mattress inside of it. Sometimes our teams will carry that
instead of a full Stokes litter. We also carry whatever
communications gear we think we will need. Often, we enter areas that
lack good radio communications, so we set up portable radio sites. We
may station one of our members on a peak in order to act as a human
repeater and repeat messages back and forth between the site and the
command post. We also carry clothing, food and liquids for any
victims we find. 

 RT : What type of medical equipment do you carry? 

 Kovacs : We have to take a minimum of 48 hours worth of
personal survival gear, which includes basic to advanced life support
medical gear. In the summer we carry lots of fluids; in the winter we
carry heat-generating devices such as heat packs or warm gas
inhalators. Depending on the situation, the medical equipment can
range from simple trauma and airway equipment to intubation gear. I
tend to have a small pack where I carry two IV setups and enough
equipment to intubate someone. I don&#130;t carry the full set of
intubation blades, which consists of two handles and 9 blades, but
carry two blades and one handle, three different size tubes and a
small bag-valve mask. I also carry two oropharyngeal airways. It's
everything that you would find in an ambulance except in much smaller
quantities. We also use this equipment for multiple purposes. For
example, a nasopharyngeal airway might be used on the end of a big
syringe to irrigate a wound. 

 RT : How many people are dispatched on a typical mountain
rescue team? 

 Kovacs : For a team to receive full MRA certification, it
has to have a minimum of 25 personnel, five of whom must be trained
at the mountain rescue technician level or above. A typical mission
could involve as few as 6 or 7 people or as many as 35. It depends on
the situation. The average response is around 15 people. 

 In regard to dispatching teams, sheriff's offices are largely
responsible for providing search and rescue in their counties, though
fire departments are becoming more involved in this as well.
Typically, we work with a sheriff's deputy who acts as the assigned
search and rescue coordinator. Sheriff's offices provide
administrative and logistical support and can get you the resources
you need. They are very supportive of mountain rescue teams, as are
fire departments. They take more of a command role for searches
because most sheriff's offices can send their deputies to school to
be trained as search managers. On the other hand, they take more of a
back seat during rescues, which are still in the realm of rescue
teams. After working with the sheriff's office, we'll then work with
ambulance and fire service personnel on or near the scene. Once we
arrive on scene, we follow the incident command system. 

 Every team that responds out from a trail head must have at least
one person who can operate at a Wilderness EMT level. We have a rank
structure similar to other public safety organizations and it's up to
the operations leader to decide who's going to a site. Often, we have
different types of skills represented on a team. We might have
climbers or mountaineers who aren't EMTs, but who are specialists in
high-angle environments. We might also have physicians who aren't
expert climbers, but who are really good in medicine. 

 RT : What type of training do mountain rescue team members
typically have? 

 Kovacs : The MRA favors the Wilderness EMT and Wilderness
First Responder type training. You have to know what is going to
happen beyond the golden hour, since you can be with that person for
a long time. You have to think about how to get the victim to purge,
to urinate, etc., and you have to be aware of how to keep the person
warm and not lose hydration. 

 RT : How many total hours of training do most team members
have? 

 Kovacs : The average would be about 200-300 hours the first
year and 100-140 hours the second year, and that includes wilderness
medical training. 

 RT : Are team members required to be proficient climbers and
hikers? 

 Kovacs : Most of the MRA teams have climbing and
mountaineering as their foundation. In some teams, every member will
be a mountaineer, while in others, there will be a core group who are
mountaineering specialists and others who are not expert climbers but
who know how to get around and understand the basics of climbing. We
also have support people who stay at the base camp or command post to
assist with communications. 

 RT : Tell me about the physical training required to earn a
spot on a team. 

 Kovacs : Most teams, even those at the entry level, require
trainees to take formal physical fitness and agility tests, including
everything that you would typically find in fire department training.
Additionally, during the first few months of probation, members are
required to go out on climbs and have their physical ability assessed
and observed. 

 RT : What type of medical emergencies are you most likely to
encounter? 

 Kovacs : Most of what we find are upper and lower extremity
fractures. Everyone we run across is generally hypothermic to some
extent and they&#130;re often dehydrated because they&#130;re usually
not equipped for the weather. We also see suspected back, neck and
head injuries. There's also rescue shock, where the person
subconsciously lets their adrenaline drop when they see rescuers
arrive. They drop their energy reserves and their body stops
fighting. This can have a refractory effect, so our job is to keep
their spirits up, maintain their body heat and keep them going until
we get them out of where they are. 

 RT : Do most calls involve climbing or mountaineering
incidents? 

 Kovacs : No. At least with respect to the MRA units in the
United States, less than 1/2 of 1% of the people we respond to are
climbers or mountaineers. A full 99.95% are hikers and regular people
who just get in a little over their heads. 

 RT : What are the typical calls you respond to? 

 Kovacs : People who are lost or who don&#130;t anticipate
changes in the weather are common calls. A lot of it has to do with
knowledge and not respecting nature as much as they should. Weather
can really do people in quickly. For the high-angle incidents that we
respond to, it's usually someone who will climb up a mountain but
cannot get down, or they may not have the proper mountaineering
training and they either get stuck or fall. 

 RT : Is there a limit to what you can respond to? 

 Kovacs : No mountain is too high. However, weather and
environmental conditions often present obstacles. For example, if we
cannot get a helicopter into the site, we may have to enter on foot,
which may mean 6 hours to reach a scene. Access is really the only
problem. Other than that, there is no place that we cannot go.
We&#130;re trained to be specialists in high angle, vertical and high
altitude situations, deal with the most severe weather conditions and
be self-sufficient for a minimum of two days without any
resources. 

 RT : You mentioned helicopters; how are they used to rescue
people? 

 Kovacs : We use them to transport personnel and equipment;
to transport the patient out of the site in the event a safe landing
zone is made available; and to perform what we call external load
techniques, which means hanging a rope underneath to rescue someone
or conducting cable hoist operations. 

 RT : How many people can a typical helicopter carry? 

 Kovacs : Unfortunately, rescue helicopters in the United
States are underpowered and small. They tend to be either Bell 500s
or 206L Rangers, which are quite small. Often, they are loaded down
with medical and other equipment, with usually one to two people
inside with their personal gear. 

 RT : Who cares for the victim once he is inside the
helicopter? 

 Kovacs : With most of the mountain rescue teams, including
mine, even if the person has no medical complaints, we&#130;ll put a
medical person in the helicopter with them so that they get a full
medical checkup. There are hidden things that can happen and we want
to be prepared for them. For example, people usually are out in the
elements for a long time. Perhaps you run across a person who
didn&#130;t take his insulin and forgot to mention this to you at the
time of his rescue because he was happy to get out. His condition
would then start to deteriorate and he would need medical
attention. 

 (Tim's post note: A little out of order. I said the medical part
in relation to assessing all patients in the field, not necessarily
putting a team medical person in the helo). 

 RT : You mentioned public safety helicopters. Are medical
helicopters used in mountain rescue situations? 

 Kovacs : There are medical helicopters throughout the
country that are typically operated by private companies. They are
usually generous in giving rides to rescue personnel to get into
sites. However, as a rule, medical helicopters land at a full landing
zone and take a patient; they don&#130;t perform a rescue.
Occasionally, we&#130;ll get help from the military. They have large
Chinook helicopters that can carry half of our team with equipment.
However, by regulation, the military cannot compete with other
helicopters if there's a local resource that can perform the same
function. 

 RT : Given that most incidents happen from lack of
knowledge, is education an important factor in keeping people
safe? 

 Kovacs : Absolutely. The MRA has two mottos: to provide
rescue and to provide mountain safety education. Knowledge is power.
The more people know, the more they will be able to make an educated
decision as to what their risk is. 

 We have a series of public safety education programs. One is
called Back Country Safety and another is called Avalanche Safety. We
have campaigns to educate the public about wearing helmets, and we
have a campaign coming out that discusses the hazards of indoor gym
climbers trying to go out in the mountains and climb on rocks. They
learn everything they know in the gym and then they go out and forget
to take into account the weather or the fact that they have a
one-hour hike approach to make and all they brought was a can of
soda. 

 RT : Can you tell about one of your more memorable mountain
rescue calls you responded to? 

 Kovacs : We had a mission in a mountainous, rugged region of
Central Arizona near Humphrey's Peak in Flagstaff (Actually, it
occured in the Superstition Wilderness. Half of our team responded to
assist from Humphreys at 10,000 feet in snow caves when the
"team-member injured" call paged us there). An individual had
reportedly been stuck for one to two days on a ledge several hundred
feet above the ground. One of our team physicians went on the lead
climbing crew. It was dark and air support was not available, so
instead of coming from the top down like we prefer, we came from the
bottom up. As the crew got close enough to initiate voice contact
with the victim, they noticed the person stand up on the ledge and
walk back and forth a few times. Then, all of a sudden, he grabbed a
couple of rocks and threw them down at us. One of the rocks hit our
team physician on the left (right) side of his body. The impact broke
his arm and gave him several other injuries. Since the victim was
breathing and was on a ledge where he was safe, we figured he was not
in any immediate danger and we then shifted into evacuating the team
physician, who was in excruciating pain, and ultimately helicoptered
him out. 

 Once we evacuated the doctor, it was then daylight and we came
from the top down in a multiple-hour operation to evacuate the
victim. 

 RT : Was he combative when you reached him? 

 Kovacs : By the time we got to him, he was really run down
and tired. Prior to reaching him, we sent a two-person rappelling
team down and spent a lot of time just above him and out of his reach
talking to him, assessing him and gaining his cooperation. 

 RT : Is it unusual for victims to turn on their rescuers
like this? 

 Kovacs : Yes, it's really unusual. It's not unusual for a
person in a desperate situation to try to grab one of us, hang on to
one of our ropes and try to yank us off the mountain, but nothing
like this. We've been fortunate that in 30 years of operation, we've
had only 3 injuries, and the injuries sustained by the physician in
this incident were by far the worst of any of them. 

 END