0-1 Integer Linear Programming 

Richard Bean, contact me 

I use 0-1 Integer Linear Programming extensively in
my combinatorics research. However the Linear Programming FAQ is out of date, and doesn't list
all the software available.

Typically the models I use have a very high degree of symmetry,
and solve set-covering problems or slight generalisations
of such problems. 
Francois Margot works on these kind of problems.

These are the programs I've been using. 

 Tested 

 WSAT 
This is excellent at finding the best solutions quickly, but
it cannot prove maximum or mimimum bounds. A Linux version
which works until December 2003 is available (January 13,2003).
January 9, 2004 - now you have to email the author. 
I used it in the critical sets for elementary abelian 2- and 3-groups paper. 

 CPLEX with 
 AMPL where the demo version of CPLEX 8 is.
This is apparently the industry standard for linear programming.
It has a good output format providing upper and lower bounds,
and many options for guiding the search. It doesn't find
the best solutions quickly, but is excellent at proving bounds - you
can take the WSAT answer and put it into CPLEX. Even
the academic version is at least $US995 - this is only
affordable by large companies or Western universities.
I used CPLEX 8 in my smallest critical set paper
and
in the critical sets for elementary abelian 2- and 3-groups paper. But BonsaiG, GLPK, and Sbb are all so good, 
I could have coped without it. Of course, ILOG claims that
ILP has wonderfully improved between CPLEX 8 and CPLEX 9,
but with the death of the benchmark page below, who would know?

 OPBDP 
This is sometimes better than CPLEX at finding good initial
solutions and uses less memory. But it cannot find
provably optimal solutions as well as CPLEX.

 PBS 
The papers about it claim great performance, but the results
for the kind of problems I typically solve weren't good. Email
the author for information.

 BSOLO 
Haven't used it much. Uses "pbf format" files, 
performance
doesn't seem to be exceptional. No documentation. Use "+V0"
to just have the bounds displayed, "+Tn" to set the maximum
CPU time used to n seconds. It seems pretty flaky too.

 lp_solve 
A standard LP solver, but not much good for integer programming.

 OSL 
IBM's Optimization Solutions and Library software. Free for research.
Average performance. Whoever invented MPS format should be shot.

 LINDO Got a demo version for Linux based on Lindo 6. It wasn't so good. Sent some sample programs to them for benchmarking with latest version, not so good either.

 BonsaiG GPL. 
I used it in my smallest critical set paper. 
On AMD processors, it performed better than CPLEX for this kind of problem.
 GLPK GPL. Could have used it in the scs paper too.

 MOSEK Had them send a time-limited demo version - wasn't so great.
 MOMIP Free. I can't remember if it was good, but see benchmark below.
 COIN/Sbb The author of BonsaiG suggested I use this instead when I emailed him about the FORTRAN kludge in BonsaiG beoming crufty (it only works with gcc 2.95, not gcc 3.3). Haven't tested it lately.

 Commercial or untested or maybe not even for 0-1 ILP 

 XA 
 XPRESS 
 ZOOM 
 MINOS (Not for ILP, I don't think!).
 FortMP 
 MINTO 
 SOPT 
 XLSOL 
 IPENUM (link broken as at 2004-03-02)
 OR Library 
 CSPLIB when there's no objective function (another CSPLib link for constraint solvers)
 BOB branch-and-bound library, link doesn't work 2003-02-18
 LPABO 
 PCx 
 HOPDM 
 BPMPD 
 KNITRO 

Many of the above are available at the NEOS server. 
And more obscure software is at NEOS Guide. 
There WAS a Mixed Integer Linear Programming Benchmark. (The author didn't just stop doing
the benchmarks, he took down all the current ones. How unfriendly.)

Also, according to the PBS
paper , it should be possible to rewrite any 0-1 ILP problem in
(DIMACS) CNF format, which means SAT solvers such as zChaff could be
used. However I haven't found software to do this or written any
myself. 

In old versions of the Linear Programming FAQ, Bob Craig
from Lucent is mentioned as having written software
to do this, but I couldn't find a working email address.

 Free counter