Afghanistan 

Frederick Engels
AFGHANISTAN

Afghanistan, an extensive country of Asia, north-west of India. It
lies between Persia and the Indies, and in the other direction
between the Hindoo Koosh and the Indian Ocean. It formerly
included the Persian provinces of Khorassan and Kohistan,
together with Herat, Beloochistan, Cashmere, and Sinde, and a
considerable part of the Punjaub. In its present limits there are
probably not more than 4,000,000 inhabitants. The surface of
Afghanistan is very irregular, - lofty table lands, vast mountains,
deep valleys, and ravines. Like all mountainous tropical countries
it presents every variety of climate. In the Hindoo Koosh, the snow
lies all the year on the lofty summits, while in the valleys the
thermometer ranges up to 130. The heat is greater in the eastern
than in the western parts, but the climate is generally cooler than
that of India; and although the alternations of temperature
between summer and winter, or day and night, are very great, the
country is generally healthy. The principal diseases are fevers,
catarrhs, and ophthalmia. Occasionally the small-pox is destructive.
The soil is of exuberant fertility. Date palms flourish in the oases
of the sandy wastes; the sugar cane and cotton in the warm
valleys; and European fruits and vegetables grow luxuriantly on
the hill-side terraces up to a level of 6,000 or 7,000 feet. The
mountains are clothed with noble forests, which are frequented by
bears, wolves and foxes, while the lion, the leopard, and the tiger,
are found in districts congenial to their habits. The animals useful
to mankind are not wanting. There is a fine variety of sheep of
the Persian or large-tailed breed. The horses are of good size and
blood. The camel and ass are used as beasts of burthen, and goats,
dogs, and cats, are to be found in great numbers. Beside the
Hindoo Koosh, which is a continuation of the Himalayas, there is
a mountain chain called the Solyman mountain, on the south-west;
and between Afghanistan and Balkh, there is a chain known as the
Paropamisan range, very little information concerning which has,
however, reached Europe. The rivers are few in number; the
Helmund and the Cabool are the most important. These take their
rise in the Hindoo Koosh, the Cabool flowing east and falling into
the Indus near Attock; the Helmund flowing west through the
district of Seiestan and falling into the lake of Zurrah. The
Helmund has the peculiarity of overflowing its banks annually like
the Nile, bringing fertility to the soil, which, beyond the limit of
the inundation, is sandy desert. The principal cities of Afghanistan
are Cabool, the capital, Ghuznee, Peshawer, and Candahar. Cabool
is a fine town, lat. 34 10' N. long. 60 43' E., on the river of the
same name. The buildings are of wood, neat and commodious,
and the town being surrounded with fine gardens, has a very
pleasing aspect. It is environed with villages, and is in the midst
of a large plain encircled with low hills. The tomb of the emperor
Baber is its chief monument. Peshawer is a large city, with a
population estimated at 100,000. Ghuznee, a city of ancient
renown, once the capital of the great sultan Mahmoud, has fallen
from its great estate and is now a poor place. Near it is
Mahmoud's tomb. Candahar was founded as recently as 1754. It is
on the site of an ancient city. It was for a few years the capital;
but in 1774 the seat of government was removed to Cabool. It is
believed to contain 100,000 inhabitants. Near the city is the tomb
of Shah Ahmed, the founder of the city, an asylum so sacred that
even the king may not remove a criminal who has taken refuge
within its walls.

The geographical position of Afghanistan, and the peculiar
character of the people, invest the country with a political
importance that can scarcely be over-estimated in the affairs
of Central Asia. The government is a monarchy, but the king's
authority over his high-spirited and turbulent subjects, is personal
and very uncertain. The kingdom is divided into provinces, each
superintended by a representative of the sovereign, who collects
the revenue and remits it to the capital. The Afghans are a brave,
hardy, and independent race; they follow pastoral or agricultural
occupations only, eschewing trade and commerce, which they
contemptuously resign to Hindoos, and to other inhabitants of
towns. With them, war is an excitement and relief from the
monotonous occupation of industrial pursuits. The Afghans are
divided into clans, over which the various chiefs exercise a sort of
feudal supremacy. Their indomitable hatred of rule, and their
love of individual independence, alone prevents their becoming a
powerful nation; but this very irregularity and uncertainty of
actions makes them dangerous neighbors, liable to be blown about
by the wind of caprice, or to be stirred up by political intriguers,
who artfully excite their passions. The two principal tribes are the
Dooranees and Ghilgies, who are always at feud with each other.
The Dooranee is the more powerful; and in virtue of their
supremacy their ameer or khan made himself king of Afghanistan.
He has a revenue of about $10,000,000. His authority is supreme
only in his tribe. The military contingents are chiefly furnished by
the Dooranees; the rest of the army is supplied either by the other
clans, or by military adventurers who enlist into the service in
hopes of pay or plunder. Justice in the towns is administered by
cadis, but the Afghans rarely resort to law. Their khans have the
right of punishment even to the extent of life or death. Avenging
of blood is a family duty; nevertheless, they are said to be a liberal
and generous people when unprovoked, and the rights of
hospitality are so sacred that a deadly enemy who eats bread and
salt, obtained even by stratagem, is sacred from revenge, and may
even claim the protection of his host against all other danger. In
religion they are Mohammedans, and of the Soonee sect; but they
are not bigoted, and alliances between Sheeahs and Soonees are
by no means uncommon.

Afghanistan has been subjected alternately to Mogul and
Persian dominion. Previous to the advent of the British on the
shores of India the foreign invasions which swept the plains of
Hindostan always proceeded from Afghanistan. Sultan Mahmoud
the Great, Genghis Khan, Tamerlane, and Nadir Shah, all took
this road. In 1747 after the death of Nadir, Shah Ahmed, who
had learned the art of war under that military adventurer,
determined to shake off the Persian yoke. Under him Afghanistan
reached its highest point of greatness and prosperity in modern
times. He belonged to the family of the Suddosis, and his first act
was to seize upon the booty which his late chief had gathered in
India. In 1748 he succeeded in expelling the Mogul governor
from Cabool and Peshawer, and crossing the Indus he rapidly
overran the Punjaub. His kingdom extended from Khorassan to
Delhi, and he even measured swords with the Mahratta powers.
These great enterprises did not, however, prevent him from
cultivating some of the arts of peace, and he was favorably known
as a poet and historian. He died in 1772, and left his crown to his
son Timour, who, however, was unequal to the weighty charge.

He abandoned the city of Candahar, which had been founded by
his father, and had, in a few years, become a wealthy and
populous town, and removed the seat of government back to
Cabool. During his reign the internal dissensions of the tribes,
which had been repressed by the firm hand of Shah Ahmed, were
revived. In 1793 Timour died, and Siman succeeded him. This
prince conceived the idea of consolidating the Mohammedan
power of India, and this plan, which might have seriously
endangered the British possessions, was thought so important that
Sir John Malcolm was sent to the frontier to keep the Afghans in
check, in case of their making any movement, and at the same
time negotiations were opened with Persia, by whose assistance the
Afghans might be placed between two fires. These precautions
were, however, unnecessary; Siman Shah was more than sufficient-
ly occupied by conspiracies, and disturbances at home, and his
great plans were nipped in the bud. The king's brother, Mahmud,
threw himself into Herat with the design of erecting an
independent principality, but failing in his attempt he fled into
Persia. Siman Shah had been assisted in attaining the throne by
the Bairukshee family, at the head of which was Sheir Afras Khan.
Siman's appointment of an unpopular vizier excited the hatred of
his old supporters, who organized a conspiracy which was
discovered, and Sheir Afras was put to death. Mahmud was now
recalled by the conspirators, Siman was taken prisoner and his
eyes put out. In opposition to Mahmud, who was supported by the
Dooranees, Shah Soojah was put forward by the Ghilgies, and
held the throne for some time; but he was at last defeated, chiefly
through the treachery of his own supporters, and was forced to
take refuge amongst the Sikhs.

In 1809 Napoleon had sent Gen. Gardane to Persia in the hope
of inducing the shah to invade India, and the Indian government
sent a representative to the court of Shah Soojah to create an
opposition to Persia. At this epoch, Runjeet Singh rose into power
and fame. He was a Sikh chieftain, and by his genius made his
country independent of the Afghans, and erected a kingdom in
the Punjaub, earning for himself the title of Maharajah (chief
rajah), and the respect of the Anglo-Indian government. The
usurper Mahmud was, however, not destined to enjoy his triumph
long. Futteh Khan, his vizier, who had alternately fluctuated
between Mahmud and Shah Soojah, as ambition or temporary
interest prompted, was seized by the king's son Kamran, his eyes
put out, and afterward cruelly put to death. The powerful family
of the murdered vizier swore to avenge his death. The puppet
Shah Soojah was again brought forward and Mahmud expelled.
Shah Soojah having given offence, however, was presently
deposed, and another brother crowned in his stead. Mahmud fled
to Herat, of which he continued in possession, and in 1829 on his
death his son Kamran succeeded him in the government of that
district. The Bairukshee family, having now attained chief power,
divided the territory among themselves, but following the national
usage quarrelled, and were only united in presence of a common
enemy. One of the brothers, Mohammed Khan, held the city of
Peshawer, for which he paid tribute to Runjeet Singh; another
held Ghuznee; a third Candahar; while in Cabool, Dost Moham-
med, the most powerful of the family, held sway.

To this prince, Capt. Alexander Burnes was sent as ambassador
in 1835, when Russia and England were intriguing against each
other in Persia and Central Asia. He offered an alliance which the
Dost was but too eager to accept; but the Anglo-Indian govern-
ment demanded every thing from him, while it offered absolutely
nothing in return. In the mean time, in 1838, the Persians, with
Russian aid and advice, laid siege to Herat, the key of Afghanistan
and India; a Persian and a Russian agent arrived at Cabool, and
the Dost, by the constant refusal of any positive engagement on
the part of the British, was, at last, actually compelled to receive
overtures from the other parties. Burnes left, and Lord Auckland,
then governor-general of India, influenced by his secretary
W. McNaghten, determined to punish Dost Mohammed, for what
he himself had compelled him to do. He resolved to dethrone
him, and to se up Shah Soojah, now a pensioner of the Indian
government. A treaty was concluded with Shah Soojah, and with
the Sikhs; the shah began collecting an army, paid and officered
by the British, and an Anglo-Indian force was concentrated on the
Sutlej. McNaghten, seconded by Burnes, was to accompany the
expedition in the quality of envoy in Afghanistan. In the mean
time the Persians had raised the siege of Herat, and thus the only
valid reason for interference in Afghanistan was removed, but,
nevertheless, in December 1838, the army marched toward Sinde,
which country was coerced into submission, and the payment of a
contribution for the benefit of the Sikhs and Shah Soojah. Feb.
20, 1839, the British Army passed the Indus. It consisted of about
12,000 men, with above 40,000 camp-followers, beside the new
levies of the shah. The Bolan pass was traversed in March; want of
provisions and forage began to be felt; the camels dropped by
hundreds, and a great part of the baggage was lost. April 7, the
army entered the Khojak pass, traversed it without resistance, and
on April 25 entered Candahar, which the Afghan princes,
brothers of Dost Mohammed, had abandoned. After a rest of two
months, Sir John Keane, the commander, advanced with the main
body of the army toward the north, leaving a brigade, under Nott,
in Candahar. Ghuznee, the impregnable stronghold of Afghanis-
tan, was taken, July 22, a deserter having brought information
that the Cabool gate was the only one which had not been walled
up; it was accordingly blown down, and the place was then
stormed. After this disaster, the army which Dost Mohammed had
collected, at once disbanded, and Cabool too opened its gates,
Aug. 6. Shah Soojah was installed in due form, but the real
direction of government remained in the hands of McNaghten,
who also paid all Shah Soojah's expenses out of the Indian
treasury.

The conquest of Afghanistan seemed accomplished, and a
considerable portion of the troops was sent back. But the Afghans
were noways content to be ruled by the Feringhee Kaffirs
(European infidels), and during the whole of 1840 and '41,
insurrection followed on insurrection in every part of the country.
The Anglo-Indian troops had to be constantly on the move. Yet,
McNaghten declared this to be the normal state of Afghan society,
and wrote home that every thing went on well, and Shah Soojah's
power was taking root. In vain were the warnings of the military
officers and the other political agents. Dost Mohammed had
surrendered to the British in October, 1840, and was sent to
India; every insurrection during the summer of '41 was successful-
ly repressed, and toward October, McNaghten, nominated gover-
nor of Bombay, intended leaving with another body of troops for
India. But then the storm broke out. The occupation of
Afghanistan cost the Indian treasury #1,250,000 per annum:
16,000 troops, Anglo-Indian, and Shah Soojah's, had to be paid in
Afghanistan; 3,000 more lay in Sinde, and the Bolan pass; Shah
Soojah's regal splendors, the salaries of his functionaries, and all
expenses of his court and government, were paid by the Indian
treasury, and finally, the Afghan chiefs were subsidized, or rather
bribed, from the same source, in order to keep them out of
mischief. McNaghten was informed of the impossibility of going
on at this rate of spending money. He attempted retrenchment,
but the only possible way to enforce it was to cut down the
allowances of the chiefs. The very day he attempted this, the
chiefs formed a conspiracy for the extermination of the British,
and thus McNaghten himself was the means of bringing about the
concentration of those insurrectionary forces, which hitherto had
struggled against the invaders singly, and without unity or concert;
though it is certain, too, that by this time the hatred of British
dominion among the Afghans had reached the highest point.

The English in Cabool were commanded by Gen. Elphinstone, a
gouty, irresolute, completely helpless old man, whose orders
constantly contradicted each other. The troops occupied a sort of
fortified camp, which was so extensive that the garrison was
scarcely sufficient to man the ramparts, much less to detach bodies
to act in the field. The works were so imperfect that ditch and
parapet could be ridden over on horseback. As if this was not
enough, the camp was commanded almost within musket range by
the neighboring heights, and to crown the absurdity of the arrange-
ments, all provisions, and medical stores, were in two detached
forts at some distance from camp, separated from it, moreover, by
walled gardens and another small fort not occupied by the
English. The citadel or Bala Hissar of Cabool would have offered
strong and splendid winter quarters for the whole army, but to
please Shah Soojah, it was not occupied. Nov. 2, 1841, the
insurrection broke out. The house of Alexander Burnes, in the
city, was attacked and he himself murdered. The British general
did nothing, and the insurrection grew strong by impunity.
Elphinstone, utterly helpless, at the mercy of all sorts of
contradictory advice, very soon got every thing into that confusion
which Napoleon described by the three words, ordre, contreordre,
desordre. The Bala Hissar was, even now, not occupied. A few
companies were sent against the thousands of insurgents, and of
course were beaten. This still more emboldened the Afghans. Nov.
3, the forts close to the camp were occupied. On the 9th, the
commissariat fort (garrisoned by only 80 men) was taken by the
Afghans, and the British were thus reduced to starvation. On the
5th, Elphinstone already talked of buying a free passage out of the
country. In fact, by the middle of November, his irresolution and
incapacity had so demoralized the troops that neither Europeans
nor Sepoys were any longer fit to meet the Afghans in the open
field. Then the negotiations began. During these, McNaghten was
murdered in a conference with Afghan chiefs. Snow began to
cover the ground, provisions were scarce. At last, Jan. 1, a
capitulation was concluded. All the money, #190,000, was to be
handed over to the Afghans, and bills signed for #140,000 more.
All the artillery and ammunition, except 6 six-pounders and 3
mountain guns, were to remain. All Afghanistan was to be
evacuated. The chiefs, on the other hand, promised a safe
conduct, provisions, and baggage cattle.

Jan. 5, the British marched out, 4,500 combatants and 12,000
camp-followers. One march sufficed to dissolve the last remnant of
order, and to mix up soldiers and camp-followers in one hopeless
confusion, rendering all resistance impossible. The cold and snow
and the want of provisions acted as in Napoleon's retreat from
Moscow. But instead of Cossacks keeping a respectful distance,
the British were harassed by infuriated Afghan marksmen, armed
with long-range matchlocks, occupying every height. The chiefs
who signed the capitulation neither could nor would restrain the
mountain tribes. The Koord-Cabool pass became the grave of
nearly all the army, and the small remnant, less than 200
Europeans, fell at the entrance of the Jugduluk pass. Only one
man, Dr. Brydon, reached Jelalabad to tell the tale. Many officers,
however, had been seized by the Afghans, and kept in captivity,
Jelalabad was held by Sale's brigade. Capitulation was demanded
of him, but he refused to evacuate the town, so did Nott at
Candahar. Ghuznee had fallen; there was not a single man in the
place that understood any thing about artillery, and the Sepoys of
the garrison had succumbed to the climate.

In the mean time, the British authorities on the frontier, at the
first news of the disaster of Cabool, had concentrated at Peshawer
the troops destined for the relief of the regiments in Afghanistan.
But transportation was wanting and the Sepoys fell sick in great
numbers. Gen. Pollock, in February, took the command, and by
the end of March, 1842, received further reinforcements. He then
forced the Khyber pass, and advanced to the relief of Sale at
Jelalabad; here Sale had a few days before completely defeated the
investing Afghan army. Lord Ellenborough, now governor-general
of India, ordered the troops to fall back; but both Nott and
Pollock found a welcome excuse in the want of transportation. At
last, by the beginning of July, public opinion in India forced Lord
Ellenborough to do something for the recovery of the national
honor and the prestige of the British army; accordingly, he
authorized an advance on Cabool, both from Candahar and
Jelalabad. By the middle of August, Pollock and Nott had come to
an understanding respecting their movements, and Aug. 20,
Pollock moved towards Cabool, reached Gundamuck, and beat a
body of Afghans on the 23d, carried the Jugduluk pass Sept. 8,
defeated the assembled strength of the enemy on the 13th at
Tezeen, and encamped on the 15th under the walls of Cabool.
Nott, in the mean time, had, Aug. 7, evacuated Candahar, and
marched with all his forces towards Ghuznee. After some minor
engagements, he defeated a large body of Afghans, Aug. 30, took
possession of Ghuznee, which had been abandoned by the enemy,
Sept. 6, destroyed the works and town, again defeated the
Afghans in the strong position of Alydan, and, Sept. 17, arrived
near Cabool, where Pollock at once established his communication
with him. Shah Soojah had, long before, been murdered by some
of the chiefs, and since then no regular government had existed in
Afghanistan; nominally, Futteh Jung, his son, was king. Pollock
despatched a body of cavalry after the Cabool prisoners, but these
had succeeded in bribing their guard, and met him on the road.
As a mark of vengeance, the bazaar of Cabool was destroyed, on
which occasion the soldiers plundered part of the town and
massacred many inhabitants. Oct. 12, the British left Cabool and
marched by Jelalabad and Peshawer to India. Futteh Jung,
despairing of his position, followed them. Dost Mohammed was
now dismissed from captivity, and returned to his kingdom. Thus
ended the attempt of the British to set up a prince of their own
making in Afghanistan.

Written in July and the first decade of August 1857
The New American Cyclopaedia, Vol. I, 1858