Aiken Drum's Top Ten Lists of TV/Movie/Commercial Theme Songs 

 Last updated June 19th, 2005. 

 There is a lot of good music used on TV and in movies, but sometimes an ad or show
picks a song that stops you, can of soda halfway to your mouth, until 20 seconds after
it's over and you quietly say, "oh my god," or, "wow," all in lowercase letters, put the 
can down, to go search the Internet, because you have to know what that was . 

 That's what marketing people are paid for, after all: to grab you for 30 or 60 
seconds and leave you with an indelible memory. Sometimes they get it right. This
is my list of the ones that I think got it right. I didn't say "oh my god" after
 every one, mind you; some had to grow on me, but regardless they are all a
significant part of my inner music and I now own a CD for each one that I
could find. 

 The links below point almost exclusively to Tower Records' website. 
This is because Tower's site used to have the most consistently representative 
samples of songs. However, now they have the same crappy samples that everyone 
else has, the ones that stop just as you get to the good or recognizable part of a 
song, which are totally useless. I'm just too lazy to change them now. 

 Top 10 Songs I First Heard in TV Commercials 
(roughly in order of how much I like them) 

 1) 
 Audi 
 The Bulgarian Women's Choir - Polegnala E Todora 
 If you find your tastes are similar to mine, check out the "Svatba" track on the above album as well. 

 2) 
 Delta Airlines 
 Adiemus (Karl Jenkins & Miriam Stockley) - Adiemus 

 3) 
 eToys 
 Israel Kamakawiwo'ole - Somewhere Over The Rainbow/What a Wonderful World 
 Also heard in the movie Meet Joe Black, on TV's er, and in several other places. 

 4) 
 Sony 
 Alana Davis - Carry On (CSNY cover) 
 Right now, I think the only way to hear the one-off version they did for the commercial is in the commercial itself. I liked it so much I recorded the commercial and made an MP3. 
 A full-length version is now for sale as a single. It's slightly different, but still really good. 

 5) 
 Nordstrom 
 Moby - Porcelain 

 6) 
 Microsoft 
 Johnny Cash - Ring of Fire 
 Social Distortion - Ring of Fire (Johnny Cash cover) 

 7) 
 Volkswagen 
 Nick Drake - Pink Moon 

 8) 
 Food Network 
 Kosheen - Hungry 
 See www.kosheen.com 's "Releases" page; the "Resist" album's page has a full-length sample. 

 9) 
 DeBeers 
 Karl Jenkins - Palladio: 1. Allegretto 

 10) 
 Volkswagen 
 Clannad - Harry's Game 
 This actually appeared in the movie Patriot Games somewhat sooner, but I saw the VW commercial first. 

 Honorable Mentions 

 Kodak 
 The American Boychoir - True Colors 
 This 46-second cover of the song popularized by Cyndi Lauper was done by The American Boychoir for Kodak in the 90's. 
 The page above is selling some used copies of their apparently-out-of-print "By Request" album. 
 There is no online sample available, but reportedly it can still be heard at the Kodak-sponsored Honey, I Shrunk the Audience Disney attraction. 

 Holland America 
 Ivy - Edge of the Ocean 

 Jaguar 
 Sting - Desert Rose 

 Levi's 
 Control Machete - Si Seor 

 Top 10 Songs I First Heard in TV Theme Songs 
(Currently unordered) 

 ?) 
 Buffy TVS 
 Nerf Herder - Buffy's Theme 

 ?) 
 Firefly 
 Sonny Rhodes - Ballad of Serenity 
 Joss Whedon himself wrote this theme song for his so-wrongly-cancelled Firefly series. You should check it out , by the way. If you do, you can even hear him sing it. 

 ?) 
 Iron Chef 
 Hans Zimmer - Show me your Fire Truck (Backdraft soundtrack) 

 ?) 
 Ghost in the Shell 
 Origa - Inner Universe 
 See a video of the Stand Alone Complex series intro here . 

 ?) 
 Dead Zone 
 Jeff Buckley - New Year's Prayer 
 Not a very good sample. 
 As an alternative to the above album, you can also buy the Dead Zone soundtrack through the show's official website . 
 Jeff Buckley's estate must have jacked up the licensing fees, because USA Network has now replaced this excellent and compelling theme with some bland, generic synth music. Too bad. 

 ?) 
 Roswell 
 Dido - Here With Me 

 ?) 
 China Beach 
 Supremes - Reflections 

 ?) 
 Tour of Duty 
 Rolling Stones - Paint it Black 
 Not exactly a rare song, but I was young and this was the first time I really heard it. 

 ?) 
 Ed 
 Clem Snide - Moment in the Sun 
 Due to contract issues, this song briefly replaced the regular and also-excellent theme ( Foo fighters - Next Year ). I quickly came to love it. The sample above is not the best, sorry. Clem Snide's music is totally worth checking out, though. 

 ?) 
 Ally McBeal 
 Vonda Shepard - Searchin' My Soul 

 ?) 
 Resident Life 
 They Might Be Giants - Am I Awake? 
 Hey, you can finally buy this song. You can also find it at www.tmbg.com or tlc.discovery.com . 

 Honorable Mentions 

 Johnathan Creek 
 Danse Macabre 
 Okay, I had heard this before, but it appealed to me more and more as I heard it each week. 

 Si Graham Norton 
 Mundy - Mexico 
 Note: There are no samples for the linked album. Try Mundy's actual site for samples. Let me warn you that, even though I consider it worth it to get just the one song, you may not be thrilled with the rest of the album. Some of Mundy's other work is much better, though. 

 Angel 
 Darling Violetta - Angel Opening Theme 
 Alas, not available for purchase, nor did I see a good sample anywhere. You could just watch the show. :) 

 EFC 
 Earth: Final Conflict Intro 

 Insomniac 
 Dave Attell - Insomniac 
 I get a kick out of this song. 

 BSG 2004 
 Battlestar Galactica Season 1 Intro (US or UK) 
 There's a little war between fans of the US intro and fans of the UK intro (which you can find in the above page by clicking the See All 30 Tracks link). I think they're both really good, very evocative and mood/tone-setting for the series. I have to admit the UK version, which is the original and intended version, is a little better. 

 Top 10 Songs I First Heard in TV Shows 
(Currently unordered) 

 ?) 
 Scrubs 
 John Cale - Hallelujah 
 Another good version of this Leonard Cohen song, sung by Rufus Wainwright, is in the movie Shrek . 

 ?) 
 Third Watch 
 Nick Drake - Road 

 ?) 
 HHGttG 
 Eagles - Journey of the Sorceror 
 Not a very good sample. This theme is also used in the radio plays, and its cameo is the only bright moment in the otherwise awful move they made recently. 

 ?) 
 X-Files 
 Jesse L. Martin - Come and Go With Me to that Land 
 Sung by one of the lead actors specifically for the episode called "The Unnatural", this is not available on CD. 
 You can buy the X-Files Series 6 DVDs and check it out, though. This is actually one of my favorite episodes, and I mean of any show, not just X-Files. 
 A version by Bernice Johnson Reagon , while not as nice, does grow on you after a while. 
 Sam Cooke did a snazzy upbeat version with the Soul Stirrers as well. Man, what a voice. 

 ?) 
 er 
 Beth Nielson Chapman - Sand and Water 

 Honorable Mentions 

 ?) 
 Lexx 
 Opening Theme - Season 3 (Battlechant of the Brunnen-G) 
 I'm very fond of this kind of music, though it's just a short piece. 
 The Lexxus9 fan site has a video of the intro , and here's a translation . 

 Top 10 Songs I First Heard in Movies 
(Currently unordered) 

 ?) 
 The Bachelor 
 David Byrne - Don't Fence Me In (Cole Porter cover) 

 ?) 
 Smoke Signals 
 Forgive our Fathers Suite, featuring Ulali's Wajeeleh-Yihm 
 The sample for this song does not include the Wahjeeleh-Yihm portion, which is the basis of this recommendation. 
 While looking for this on the Ulali site , I also found (and recommend) Mahk Jchi , from the Mahk Jchi album. 

 ?) 
 The Snapper 
 Lick the Tins - I Can't Help Falling in Love with You (Elvis cover) 
 Also in the movie Some Kind Of Wonderful 

 Honorable Mentions 

 Top 10 Original Soundtracks Wherein The Whole Darned Album Is Good 
(Currently unordered) 

 ?) 
 Amelie 
 Yann Tiersen - Amelie Original Soundtrack 
 I strongly recommend seeing the movie first, as the best thing about the album is the memories it evokes of the movie, which is easily one of the best ever made. 

 ?) 
 Gladiator 
 Hans Zimmer/Lisa Gerrard - Gladiator Original Soundtrack 

 ?) 
 Buffy TVS 
 Cast - The Musical Episode 
 Note this is not a likely recommendation for non-fans. It is, however, possibly the best musical episode I've ever seen in a TV show. 

 Honorable Mentions 

Want to give me a suggestion of your own? I'm going to talk in gibberish and you figure out which part is my address, because you're smarter than one of those evil web scanner programs, right? :) 

 'Twas AIKEN , and the slithey toves 
Did gyre and gimbal AT the wabe 
All mimsy was the ESKIMO 
And the COM raths outgrabe