Sailing Adventures in Greece & Turkey with SeaScape Sailing. Our latest cruise notes from sailing in the Greek islands, Turkey, Thailand and Tonga. 

 Simple things...give skipper Di a coconut and she's in heaven ! 

 Feb 12th, 2003 

 Greetings from sunny Leros, our home island in Greece! A very quiet Leros, during the winter months - though still as lovely as ever. All the boats are "put to bed" for the winter, and most of the locals are taking a very well-earned rest from a hectic summer! 

 Of course, like the rest of the western world, we also sit glued to CNN every evening, waiting to see what will happen with the potential conflict with Iraq. And of course, we're getting many emails from folks your end of the world - northern Europe, the States, Australia - wanting to come sail here, but concerned about the whole situation in the Middle East. 

 We completely understand these concerns - though sitting here in Greece, we feel that we're actually in one of the safer spots on the globe! However, as a small company, we do have the advantage of being able to adapt quickly to changing situations - and as part of this flexibility, we have put together a "contingency booking plan", with modified cancellation conditions. Basically, we are saying - We are living here ourselves - we would not put our clients, our boats nor ourselves in any possible danger; if things change, and there are any real threats to safety, we'll pull the plug and of course refund everyone's money. Or take the boats and go sail somewhere else!". (There's more in the "small print" too, of course - read it for yourself !) 

 Unless the world situation changes dramatically, we don't feel there's any safety issues at all being here in Greece; and we'd be very surprised if there were in SW Turkey either. If this changes, we'll know about it pretty fast; and we'll change with it. 

 One other odd (to us) question/comment we've been receiving lately has been about "anti-american sentiment" in Greece and/or Turkey. Being actually here ourselves, we're a bit mystified about this. Perhaps there is some political propaganda we've missed; but in our personal, direct experience, nothing could be further from reality. Even before 9/11 - according to our local Greek & Turkish buddies, Americans were well up on the "favourites" list as tourists, as generally very easy-going and appreciative visitors. Post 9/11, it amazed even us just how much instant and heartfelt support there was for the States; especially in Turkey, in fact. Last summer, the locals were happy and appreciative in their turn, to see the return of their American visitors. If there's been some radical change in this sentiment, we surely haven't noticed it ! 

 If you'd like to chat to any of us "real time" - do give us a call! There's Carole & Judy in Seattle (US); Robert in Sydney (Australia) or myself here in sunny Greece! You can now also call us toll free from the UK and 37 other countries around the world! 

 Fair winds, and hopes from the Greek islands for a peaceful resolution for our troubled world...

 Diane Edwards

 &#151;and the rest of our SeaScape team.