Four Winds Kite Shop - Dual-line Kite Flying 

 Flight Envelope for Multiple-Line Kites 

A special thanks to the 
 Seattle AirGear Company for the use of their wonderful
 Flight Envelope graphic and information taken from their web site.
 The image above, of a Seattle AirGear's WindDanceII
 kite in flight with tails, visually demonstrates the flight path of the kite.
 Please visit their web site for volumes of information on kite flying.

The following image graphically describes the flight envelope of multiple-line
 kites. There are several key areas to this flight envelope.

 F represents the Flyer --
 The flight envelope is relative to the position of the
 flyer. If the flyer moves around, the flight envelope described here moves too.

 K represents the Kite --
 The kite generally remains a constant distance from the Flyer. Depending on
 where in the flight envelope the kite it, it will behave differently.

 P represents the center of the Power Zone --
 This is the area on the flight envelope that is directly
 down wind of the flyer. The wind is perpendicular to the kite in this area
 producing the greatest force on the kite, and thus the strongest pull and
 fastest speeds.

 L represents the Left limit of the flight envelope.

 U represents the Upper limit of the flight envelope.

 R represents the Right limit of the flight envelope.

The Edge is represented by Arc L-U-R 
 and is the furthest the kite can fly into the wind. At the Edge ,
 the kite produces JUST enough lift to maintain it's posiiton on the flight
 envelope. If it moves beyond the Edge it will begin to lose altitude.

As you fly your kite from the Edge to the Power Zone , it's speed
 and pull will increase. As you fly away from the Power Zone , it's speed
 and pull will decrease.

Keep in mind that the flight envelope extends to the ground along
 Arc L-P-R .
 More skilled flyers use this area for Ground Work and Landing.
 Less skilled flyers use this area for Crashing!

As you fly your kite from the Power Zone to the Edge , it's speed
 and pull will decrease.

As you fly your kite from the Edge to the Power Zone , it's speed
 and pull will increase.

As you fly your kite along the red lines , it's speed
 and pull change the fastest.

As you fly your kite along the blue lines , it's speed
 and pull remain constant.

As the wind increases, the speed and pull of the kite will increase.

The speed and pull of your kite can also be affected by a turn or spin, depending
 on your kite and control techniques.

 The Dual-Line Kite 

In contrast to single-line kites, dual-line kites use two lines of equal length.
 When flying the single-line kite, the line length is variable -- you may have
 your kite flying at any altitude, depending on the wind conditions. Dual-line
 kites use two lines of fixed and equal length. The kite generally remains a
 constant distance from the flyer at all times. Setup for a multiple-line kite
 is also different. The lines are unwound to their full length BEFORE the kite
 becomes airborne.

Dual-line kites are one of the three types of stunt kites: 2-line, 3-line,
 and 4-line stunt kites.

A stunt kite is any kite with two or more flying lines, a kite that can be
 maneuvered at will by the flier.

A sport kite is any kite used for sport, that is, any kite used for recreation
 or competition. Sport kite is used to describe just about every kind of kite
 that's used for sport, an imprecise way to describe a kite.

Of the three kinds of stunt kites (2-line, 3-line, and 4-line), dual-line stunt
 kites provide the highest speed, fastest and tightest aerobatics, most
 aircraft-like flight performance, strongest pull for their size, and the highest
 levels of tactile and visual excitement.

Dual-line stunt kites are also the easiest to fly, and are by far the most popular.

Your dual-line kite's straight-line speed & pull, its turning speed & power,
 how easy and forgiving it is to fly, how much fun you have, and how much
 exercise you get are hugely determined by the kite itself.

 The Launch 

Besides your kite, you will need your set of lines, your choice of handles or
 straps, and a ground stake.

 1. 
 Plant your groundstake where you at F . This is the location that you
 choose as your flying position.

 2. 
 Place your control handles or straps securely around your ground stake. If
 your lines are not already attached to your handles, attach them at this time.

 3. 
 Walk DOWN wind (in the direction of the wind) toward P , the center of
 the Power Zone . As you walk, unwind your lines. Don't forget to bring
 your kite with you .

 4. 
 When you arrive at the end of your lines, remove them from the winder. Hold
 the one line in each hand and spread them apart while gently pulling them taught.
 This will move any twists in the lines down to your ground stake where it will
 be easier to unwind them.

 5. 
 Unpack or assemble your kite if you haven't already done so and attach the
 lines to your kites bridle lines using larkshead knots.

 6. 
 Move the kite so that the lines are taught. Place the Trailing Edge 
 of the kite on the ground with the Leading Edge leaning AWAY from your
 flying position F . This should prevent the kite from SELF-LAUNCHING,
 which should be AVOIDED whenever possible!

 7. 
 Depending on how eager you are to fly, you may choose to walk or RUN back to
 your flying position, F . Pick up your control handles, making sure that
 you've removed any twists in the lines. Keep the lines slightly taught so that
 your kite will not tip backwards, out of the launch position.

 8. 
 Stand facing your kite, which is on the ground very close to the center of 
 the Power Zone . Keep your lines slightly taught, move your arms out in
 front of you. You may have to take a step backwards to accomplish this. You
 and the kite are now in LAUNCH POSITION.

 9. 
 Launch the kite by Swiftly & Smoothly pulling your arms backwards in a\
 pendulum-like motion along your sides, keeping your arms straight. This motion
 pulls the kite into it's proper flight orientation, and gives it a bit of an
 initial impulse of energy to connect it to the wind and lift it into the air!

 The Flight 

 You may want to read this section before you perform The Launch! 

Standing at F , your kite has just left the ground near P . 
 Assuming that your lines are of perfectly equal length, both of your arms are
 the same length, you're holding them at exactly the same distance relative to
 each other, and your kite is perfectly symmetrical, your kite will fly straight
 up into the air! WOW! That was easy huh?

Now lets assume that all of the above aren't exactly perfect and equal. Your
 kite will begin to turn one way or the other. You need to correct this -- and
 depending on your kite and the wind conditions, you may need to correct it
 quickly.

Basic turns are quite simple. To turn LEFT, pull on your LEFT line. To turn
 RIGHT, pull on your RIGHT line. LEFT LEFT. RIGHT RIGHT. Depending on the
 style of your kite, it may turn quickly or slowly. In general, the smaller the
 kite, the more quickly they turn. If you find that everytime you try to turn
 your kite turns too quickly, then you're pulling too much on your line. Back
 off on the amount of pull. You'll find that the kite will turn more slowly.

There are different styles of hand movement for making dual-line kites turn.
 In timeEveryone developes their own style -- a style that makes kiting fun
 and comfortable for that individual.

You'll see people that keep their arms straight at their sides and simply
 swing them backwards or forwards to make their kite turn. Others keep their
 hands in front of them and move them away from or toward their chest. It's
 important to remember that it's the PULLING of one line in relation to the
 other that causes the kite to turn.

You'll also see beginners using all sorts of body language to make their kites
 turn. Notice that it generall doesn't work for them.

On your initial flight, practice flying your kite straight up to the top of
 the flight envelope, U . Stabilize your kite at that point. If it
 begins to veer to the left, pull on the RIGHT line to turn it back
 to the RIGHT. If it begins to veer to the right, pull on the LEFT line to
 turn it back to the LEFT. Continue this until you're comfortable that you
 can keep it there.

This is a relatively "safe" place for your kite, assuming that this wind is
 nice and continuous. If you happen to loose control of it, it's at its
 highest point in the flight envelope, and you should have time to recover.
 It's also on the Edge , which means that it will be producing just
 enough lift to maintain flight.

Flying at the top Edge of the flight envelope is different than flying
 on the Edge on the sides. On the top, it is very easy to turn the
 kite to either direction and fly it back into the middle of the flight 
 envelope. On the other hand, if you're flying on the Edge off to 
 the sides, you'll generally only want to turn the kite TOWARD the center
 of the flight envelope. If you're flying on the Edge and you turn your
 kite AWAY from the center of the flight envelope, you'll quickly find yourself
 OUTSIDE of it and your kite will no longer be maintaining it's altitude.
 If you're kite is high enough, you may be able to continue it's turn all the
 way around and toward the center of the flight envelope BEFORE it reaches
 the ground. This is always exciting!

When you're comfortable flying your kite at the top of the Edge of
 the flight envelope, try turning it slightly. The kite will slowly fly down
 the Edge to the side that you turned toward. Then fly to the other
 side. Explore the Edge of the envelope, and remember where it is.
 When things get crazy and you feel like you're loosing control of the kite,
 fly it to the top Edge and take a breather.

As you become more comfortable with the control of your kite, explore the
 rest of the flight envelope. Depending on how far and how fast 
 you move your control handles, you'll notice that you can make the kite turn
 at much different rates.

Dual-line kite lines are designed to be able to twist around each other many
 times and still be able to slide along each other so that you can control your
 kite. As you twist them however, try to keep an approximate count of the turns
 so that you can UNWIND the lines by turning the other way.

Practice your turns. See how quickly you can wind the lines 5 times, and then
 quickly unwind them. Notice how the kite loses altitude as you turn it. When
 you get in a "spinning frenzy", make sure that you have enough altitude so that
 you can stop the turns before your kite hits the ground.

Now try a large, slow turn that takes up the whole sky. You'll want to pull just
 slightly on the line of the side you want to turn to. As you learn, you'll have
 to constantly adjust the rate of the turn. Practice WILL make perfect. Soon
 you'll not only be able to trace perfect circles of any diameter, but you'll be
 able to trace all sorts of other shapes too!

Turning is very natural for the kite. It's what happens automatically. Now try
 flying the kite in a straight line. You'll find that flying straight is like
 trying to balance a ball on the peak of a roof -- it will always want to fall
 to one side or the other. You may find flying straight a bit more difficult
 then flying a constantly turning kite. This may sound silly, but think of flying
 straight simply as flying WITHOUT turning.

When you were flying your kite at the top Edge of the flight envelope, you
 were flying straight. You'll remember that the kite continually tried to fly
 to one side or the other and you had to compensate for it by turning it back to
 the center. Use this same philosophy when flying straight ANYwhere in the flight
 envelope.

Don't limit your imagination. You can fly ANY direction and ANYwhere in the
 flight envelope, as long as you path does not take you out of it. If it does,
 you'll quickly be reminded of just where your Edge is. Fly from the
 center of the Power Zone straight up into the sky, or
 away at 45 degree angles to either side. Fly straight down from
 the top of the Edge . Fly straight horizontally accross
 the flight envelope at different altitudes. When you get better, see if you
 can fly straight along the ground with your wingtip just a couple
 feet above it.

Once you've become comfortable with your turns and straight flight, start mixing
 them up. Anything you can imagine, you can do. Make up routines, fly to music,
 try new things, and remember... If you don't crash periodically, then you're
 not trying hard enough!

Everyone crashes. Beginners crash as they're learning and experts crash as the
 invent new tricks and maneuvers. With dual-line, sparless kites, crashing is
 the only way to land! The key -- the most important thing to remember -- is
 that kiting is for FUN! 

 The Landing 

There are several different ways to land a kite. The most common, and probably
 least desireable method is called crashing . Try to avoid this
 if possible, especially in the Power Zone where the forces on the kite
 are the greatest. If you're approaching quitting time, and you accidentally
 crash, consider calling that your landing and vow to "land" better tomorrow!

Remember the Edge ! Remember how the kite produces just enough lift, when
 on the Edge , to maintain it's flight? As you're learning, remember that
 the forces and speed are less at the Edge . Fly your kite to the
 Edge and slowly trace it down to the ground. Your kite will gently
 touch down.

Note that on the ground, the Edge is UPWIND of the Power Zone .
 You may want to quickly move to your kite so that the wind doesn't blow it
 away and possibly re-launch it.

Sparless, dual-line kites are soft. The standard method of landing is by way of
 the crash. Let's call it a "controlled crash." Don't fly it all the way to the
 Edge . These kites are soft and light. They will be easily blown downwind
 from the landing/crash sight. Land them at about 30 or 40 degrees from the
 Power Zone . When they land, they will maintain their downward orientation
 which will hold them to the ground, giving you time to retrieve them.