Four Winds Kite Shop - Quad-line Kite Flying 

 Quad-Line Kite Flying 

The following information comes from the Revolution Kites' Web Site. These
 exercises are intended for Revolution kites, but the skills described on this
 page are common to most quad-lined kites. Revolution Kites are the benchmark
 for quad-line kite flying!

The following exercises will help you devlop basic, intermediate, and advanced
 flying skills with your Revolution Kite. Since the Revolution EXP, 1.5 SLE,
 Shockwave, and Supersonic have different size and weight distributions, their
 responses will vary slightly. These characteristics will make some some of the
 excercises more easily accomplished with one model versus the others.

The first area covered in this program are the six basic skills of the Revolution
 design. These are the building blocks which can be combined to give you total
 control of your Revolution Sport Kite.

The second area shows and explains a series of flying exercises which are based
 on combinations of the six basic skills. With practice these exercises will
 develop your skills to competitive levels.

 Basic Revolution skills 

1. Forward flight (all directions) 
2. Turns - left, right, sharp, gradual 
3. Stop and hover (all directions) 
4. Reverse flight (all directions) 
5. Speed control (forward and reverse) 
6. Side slide (lateral flight) 

 Series Exercise Skills: 
 1 1. Forward and reverse flight 1,3,4 
 1 2. Horizontal flight 1,2 
 1 3. Horizontal reverse flight 1,3,4 
 2 4. Basic Reverse Launch 2,4 
 2 5. Fly and Slide 1,2,5,6 
 2 6. Full Spins 2,3 
 3 7. Inverted hover 1,2,3,4,5,6 
 3 8. Advanced Reverse Launch 1,2,4 
 3 9. Tip Landing 1,2,5,6 
 4 10. Horizontal Reverse 1,2,4,5,6 
 4 11. Facet Turns ("The Clock") 2,3 
 4 12. Inverted Snap Spins 2,3,4 
 5 13. Slide Turns 1,2,5,6 
 5 14. Instant Stop 1,3,5 
 5 15. Reverse Flight Up 4,5 
 5 16. Inverted Side Slide 2,3,4,6 
 6 17. Slow Motion Spins 2,3,4,5 
 6 18. Spin and Climb 1,2,4,5 
 6 19. The Float 1,3,5,6 

 1. Forward Flight 
Rotate handles, thumbs back and launch the kite to full up altitude. Now,
 gradually rotate handles - thumbs forward - causing the kite to back down.
 Repeat this exercise while adjusting speed in both directions. Practice
 maintaining a straight line.

 2. Horizontal Flight 
Fly up and to the right by momentarily applying pressure to the right thumb and
 then returning thumb back. As the kite approaches the edge of the wind, turn
 left and fly across horizontally. Attempt to maintain smooth, straight, flight.

 3. Horizontal Reverse Flight 
Begin as in exercise #1. When in full up position, tilt the kite slightly
 (10 degrees) by turning. Then apply reverse controls to both wings causing the
 kite to reverve down at a slight angle from vertical. To practice, visualize a
 diagonal line, then attempt to fly that line both forward and reverse. Gradually
 with practice, increase the angle approaching reverse flight.

 4. Basic Reverse Launch 
From the upside down position, apply full reverse to one wing (thumb rotates
 forward until top and bottom lines touch) and 10% to 20% reverse on the other
 wing. If the wind is low, pull handles down and back smoothly past you sides.
 This will cause your kite to roll over and land right side up.

 5. Fly & Slide 
Begin by flying back and forth as in excercise #2 with arms fully extended. As
 the kite flies across, pull back on the lower wing handle causing the kite to
 slide down as it flies across. Now re-extend the lower wing handle out and
 pull back on the upper wing handle as it slides, causing the kite to slide up
 as it continues flying across. To keep the kite flying forward as slides, be
 sure to keep the thumbs rotated back as you pull. Any motion which includes a
 slide control is considered an advanced technique since it adds a third dimension
 to flight control. For example, control handle rotation will generate either
 forward or reverse lift depending on direction of thumb rotation, while the
 pulling motion generates a lateral or sideways lift component. To improve touch
 while flying, practice responding to it with the proper control. For example,
 if the kite begins to slide down, pull back on the top wing handle to slide up.
 If the kite tilts clockwise, counter with the proper lift handle rotation, or
 right wing rotation, or combination of flight and left. Over control is the most
 common problem, sensitivity will come with practice.

 6. Full Spins 
Fly to a full up position then stop and hover. Generate a spin by sharply rotating
 one thumb forward while keeping hands together. When the spin is about 75%
 complete, return the thumb back to stop the spin. The stored inertia will
 continue to the upright position. Focus on timing while practicing spins in
 both directions. Continue with double and triple spins.

 7. Inverted Hover 
With the kite inverted on the ground, reverse launch the kite by rotating both
 control handles, thumbs forward. As the kite rises to about 4 feet, stop and
 hover by partially releasing the thumb rotation. This is a difficult exercise
 to master since "up" is now "down" and "left" is now "right". Since most
 instability is caused by over controlling, TRy to launch and hover with as
 little hand rotation and pulling as possible. Initial hover periods of 2 to 3
 seconds are good.

 8. Advanced Reverse Launch 
Reverse launch using both handles (see exer.7). As the kite reverses up about
 6 feet, quickly rotate one of the handles, thumb back causing the kite to spin.
 As the kite rotates through 90 degrees (facing out to the side), quickly rotate
 the other handle, thumb back. Your control handles are now in the forward flight
 position as the kite's inertia finishes the turn upward and into forwad flight.
 The difficult part of this move is the timing of the control handle rotation to
 generate the spin and the forward flight sections. For example, the time between
 the spin and the forward flight signal is typically less than one second.

 9. Tip Landing 
Fly to a full up position then turn to the side and slide (see exercise 5) ending
 in a tip landing. Focus on a straight slide with no rotation. First initiate the
 slide, then with the pull position locked in, focus on stabilizing with slight
 wrist rotations. Practice regulating slide speed including stopping and sliding
 back up. As in all exercises, practice both left and right sides.

 10. Horizontal Reverse 
Fly up to 20', turn 90 and fly toward edge of wind window. Apply thumb pressure
 (reverse control) to both handles to start reverse flight. As the kite begins
 to reverse, it will also start sliding down. While reversing, you can, at the
 same time, pull back on the high wing to counter the down slide. Fly slowly in
 reverse to avoid flipping a wing. Practice on level flight paths both forward
 and reverse.

 11. Facet Turns ("The Clock") 
Fly up to hover at center of wind. Snap turn to 90 (c.w.), stop and hover. 
 Snap turn to 180 (inverted), stop and hover. 
 Snap turn to 270 (c.w.), stop and hover. 
 Finally complete the rotation with a 90 snap turn to the face up position. 
 Practice both clockwise and counter-clockwise rotations. Focus on pure center
 point rotation and dead steady hovering between turns. For team flying, 8-point
 facet turns (45 intervals) should also be mastered. Precision and sharpness
 can be enhanced by following the snap turn by a momentary snap in the opposite
 direction thus canceling and instantly stopping the initial snap spin. This
 type of precision takes practice, but it also leads to world class level
 performances.

 12. Inverted Snap Spin 
Reverse launch and hover at 5' to 8'. Snap spin 180, stop, and hover (facing up).
 Now reverse snap spin back to the original inverted hover. 
 Next, practice 360 snap spins from inverted hover to inverted hover. 
 Finally, practice both left and right sides.

 13. Inverted Snap Spin 
Launch and fly kite upward. Gradually pull one handle back causing a slight amount
 of sliding to the flight path. As the kite curves off, apply some thumb pressure
 to the pull side which adds a turn on top of the slide. The harder you pull the
 harder you slide, while the harder you rotate the handle,-the harder you turn.
 This move has the effect of moving the center of rotation away from the center of
 the kite, which is its natural point of rotation. For example, a large radius,
 gradual turn is produced by a large pull with a slight handle rotation, while a
 tight spin is produced using exTReme handle rotation and little or no pulling.

 14. Instant Stop 
Fly full speed up then instantly throw both controls into full reverse for a
 moment (thumbs rotated forward), to instantly stop the kite. Quickly release
 the control handle pressure enough to stabilize the kite in a hovering mode.
 Practice in all directions. Focus on complete motionlessness during stop and
 hover phase. This manuver produces one of the most impressive REVOLUTION effects,
 the famous "Dive .... Stop" . Fly full speed down toward the ground
 and at the last second, when there is obviously no way out, slam on full brakes,
 stopping inches from the ground in an inverted hover.

 15. Reverse Flight Up 
Start inverted on the ground. Reverse both controls causing the kite to launch
 and fly upward in reverse. The most common problem encountered is a tilting,
 swaying, or rocking motion caused by over controlling and/or pulling. Also
 stopping and re-starting tend to cause instability problems. First start
 from the ground, directly down wind. As the kite becomes unsTABLE during the
 reverse flight simply abort, and start again from the ground. Secondly, practice
 the inverted hover (exer. #7) to improve sensitivity. Reverse up slowly and
 smoothly to avoid wing flips.

 16. Inverted Side Slide 
Reverse launch and hover. Pull one handle back causing the kite to slide in the
 opposite direction. Initially, start slowly focusing on altitude, stablity, and
 straight flight. Practice inverted hover (exer.#7) to improve sensitivity.
 Note: This is one of the most technically difficult skills to develop since it
 contains all three control methods while flying inverted!

 17. Slow Motion Spins 
Center point, slow motion spins can be
 produced by changing the speed and timing of facet turns. First, facet turn
 through 360 degrees at 90 degree intervals with a one or two second hover at
 each facet point (90,190,270,and 360 degrees). Now, with practice, you can
 shorten the pause at each of the four points, and slow down the turn rate
 between points thus producing a slow, smooth, continuous spin. The key is to
 visualize the four hover points even though you don't hover any more.
 This will allow you to stabilize the spin. (credit: Alan Nagao, High Performance
 Kites, Hawaii)

 18. Spin and Climb 
The REVOLUTION can actually climb and increase altitude during a spin by increasing
 the lift on an individual wing at the appropriate time. For example, as the kite
 flies straight up, pull sharply back on the right wing causing it to climb above
 the left wing. Now,during a clockwise spin, as the left wing climbs through the
 270 degree point , pull sharply on the left control handle causing this wing to
 accelerate and climb upward during this part of the spin. As it rotates through
 the 360 degree point, extend the left handle back out in front of you to the
 normal flying position. Now, each time the left wing rotates into climbing position,
 repeat the pull (270 degrees) and release (360 degrees) sequence. Since you pull
 once per rotation, this is known as the single pull, spin and climb method.

For the double pull, you need to realize that one wing is flying forward (thumb
 rotated back), while the other is flying in reverse (thumb rotated forward). For
 the double pull method (c.w. spin), as the forward wing climbs through the 270
 degree point, accelerate by pulling that handle while maintaining thumb back.
 Re-extend arm as the left wing rotates through the 360 degree point.

Now, continuing the spin as the reverse wing rotates through the 270 degree point,
 pull sharply on that handle while maintaining forward thumb pressure. Again,
 re-extend the arm outward as the climbing wing rotates through the 360 degree point.
 With practice, your timing will become smooth and accurate, and the "pull and
 extend": sequence will resemble a circular pumping action. Practice hand motion
 while visualizing kite rotation. This method can also be used to maintain altitude
 during slow motion spins.

 19. The Float 
This is a technique used extensively in low wind conditions, and, is in fact,
 the key to light wind and no wind flying. It's also used to regain lost ground
 from running back. The concept is to pull back on one handle so far that the
 wing is flying layed out flat and almost parallel to the ground similar to a
 plane or bird in normal flight. Start by flying across to the side as in
 exercise #2. Now, pull back-on the top wing, and push out on the bottom wing.
 Remember, as in all slide manuvers you must maintain forward, directed flight
 with proper wrist rotation. A common mistake is to apply a reverse control as
 you pull the control handle back. So to keep the kite king forward, keep both
 thumbs rotated back as you lay the kite out and float it. The body position is
 similar to shooting a bow and arrow. For example, left hand back to left ear,
 right foot forward, right hand fully extended out, and body facing in opposite
 direction to forward flight. For light wind conditions, keep the kite moving
 forward at all times since the wing speed is necessary to generate lift.