Gays Feys Bears: Links From Dave Kerlick 
 Gays Feys Bears: Links From Dave Kerlick 
last modified 1 April 1996 (just foolin'!) 
dead links removed 18 June 1999. No attempt to update, there's
so much you can get from a search engine!

Children of a future age 
 reading this indignant page, 
Know that in a former time 
a path to love was thought a crime 
 -- William Blake.

 General Gay Stuff 

Queer Resources Directory Biggest & Best

 Web Personals (has M-M and F-F sections)
 http://www.webpersonals.com/date/ 

 GLBA Homepage (RPI)
 http://www.rpi.edu/dept/union/glba/public_html/index.html 

 Listings for Washington 
 Welcome to GayWeb -- Come take a look at what's new.../ Gay Web 
 homepages 

Yahoo - Society and Culture:Sex:Gay, Lesbian, and Bisexual Resources 

 Small-Endowed Men and Admirers 
 Names Project 
 Queer Nasty Home Page 

 A Radical Faeries
 Home Page 
Spiritually oriented gay men, accent on alternatives (pagan and neo-pagan, 
Eastern, weird new agey, hippie, rural, sex-magic(k), esoteric &c.

 Bears and Such 
Basically, us hairy guys, many with full figures, and a hearty attitude-free
approach to life and its vicissitudes.
 Here are the
 Northwest Bears of
Seattle and environs. Nationally, there's: 

 Visit the WWW's leading site for Bear resources! 

Visit 
The Bear's Mystery Dream Date Page 

 Twinkies 
So-called for being yellowish, air-filled, and
intellectually challenged. Named after a popular
synthetic confection that sets up like epoxy rahter than bakes.

For a definitive scientific study look up the
 The
T.W.I.N.K.I.E.S. Project . The results are presented in haiku form.
[! missing! 1999!]

Supermodela RuPaul discusses 
 zits & stuff , for those whose lives revolve around such questions.

 Lists of Homopages 

Homo Pages of Queer People out on the 'Net
 The Other Queer Page People 
 homepages 

List of Queer Home Pages 
 BHI's WestHollywood(sm) 

 Folk 
... being a compendium of gays to whom I have showed my links,
and they have responded in kind.
 Modern Techniques 
See the 
Buttfucking page for that all-important how-to information!
And A little something from a chain letter...

 Eye on our Enemies 

 Political Nazis Page 

return to David K. in Person