David Kerlick: Organizations and Enthusiasms 

 David Kerlick - Organizations and Enthusiasms 
Here are a list of organizations I am or have been interested in
and supportive of. Grouped by topics and linked as catch can.
 Spiritual 

 The Rainbow Family 
 Sacred Brothers Northwest . 
 A group of local folk who have been to Joe Kramer (and
successor) workshops of the Body Electric School of Massage
and Rebirthing (Oakland CA)
 Seattle Gay Buddhist Fellowship 
 Gay Men's Spiritual Retreat 
 Nomenus 
 Rural Land Trust of the 
 Radical Faeries 
 Crossroads Learning Center (alas no more, expired 4/97)
 The As You Like It library. 
 In the I.O.O.F. building, Capitol Hill, Seattle. Metaphysical
and other subjects off the beaten
path, many of them flaky!

 Cultural 
 Seattle Pro Musica ,
 Karen P. Thomas, music director. next Concert Holidays 1997,
including Benj. Britten's "A Boy is Born" and in 1998
the Rachmaninoff "Vespers."
 A list of Choirs I have belonged to in past.
 Seattle Art Museum
 Seattle Opera 
 Seattle Symphony 
 The Dante Aleghieri Society of Washington 
 (know nothing of,
but like Dante)

 Civil Rights / Politics 

 ACLU 
 I'm a card-carrying member, thank you, Mr. Bush, Mr. McCarthy) 
 NGLTF 
 National Gay & Lesbian Task Force
 Lobby for Gay Lesbian Interests at National level

 Equality Washington 
was "Hands Off Washington" Washington State
 political action, alas, necessary to counter the disinformation of the "religious" right wing 
 Eat the State! 
 Politics with Bite

 NORML 
(National Org. for reform of Marijuana Laws). 

Folks 
with AIDS need this
medicine! The War on Drugs is a war on the Bill of Rights. Marijuans
is on Schedule I for one reason only. Right wingers associate its use
with opposition to their holy genocide against Vietnam! If tobacco were
outlawed (hypothesis only: I don't support any
prohibitionary laws) and marijuana legalized, public health would benefit.

 King County Democrats 

Think globally, act locally. The local party is
more liberal than the national. Clinton has moved the national Democratic
party so far to the right that I'm no longer willing to
donate money to them. Instead:

 The Green Party
 The Seattle Greens 
 Unfortunately, the National Greens seem to be about spoiling elections
for the Democrats, and electing Newt Gingrich Republicans.
This doesn't happen in European parliamentary systems, but it does happen here!

 I can't support 
a spolier.
 If they got busy and worked on "fusion" or alternative voting systems 
like approval voting , then and only then would it make
sense for a progressive to vote Green in a close race. 

National Committee for an Effective Congress 
 started by Eleanor Roosevelt, provides tactical assistance to liberal candidates for Congress.

Human Rights Campaign Fund
 Alas: NO MORE 
 They donated money to the 
Republican (Newt-oid) House Campaign.
They also backed D'Amato in New York in 1998. 
 Not with my money! 
They are off my book now.

 Environment 

 Oregon National Resource Council 
 and Andy Kerr, their feisty former director.
 Aggressively protecting Oregon's wildlands and waters.

Wilderness Society 

Preservation of the Wild, and in so doing, humankind.
However, they have signed on to Clinton's bribe of Forest Rapist Charles
Hurwitz (MAXXAM Co.) to the tune of $100 M. Hurwitz should be behind bars,
not the recipient of federal bribes.

 Sempervirens Fund

 Preserves the Big Basin redwoods in California. 
 The Friends of the 

Volunteer Park Conservatory 
 A modest, well-attended plant conservatory in Seattle's
Capital Hill area.

 Do Good 
 Northwest Aids Foundation
 Chicken Soup Brigade (Practical help for people living with AIDS)
 Lambert House (Gay youth in Seattle)

Oxfam America 
 Famine relief and self-help in the Third World
 Habitat for Humanity (Housing relief)

 Social 
 The Olympians 
 (a gay male nudist social club)
 Northwest Bears 
nwbears@scn.org 
 A social club for big hairy men and their admirers.

 Oregon Bears 
 in Portland at 
oregonbears@oregonberas.org 

 Return 
to David Kerlick's Personal Page