David Kerlick Eskimo Home Page 

 David Kerlick - Personal 
 Profile (Professional)
 ssermo

Many of the links are skeletal
and under (mis)construction. 
Page last modified 19 December 2001.

On the general 
topic of 
 webs , 
see "Websters' New Intergalactic Wickedary of the English
Language" by Mary Daly in cahoots with Jane Caputi.
 The WorldWideWeb is a 
cybernetic instantiation of the

 Noosphere 

 as conceived by
 Pierre Teilhard de Chardin . "When in the future, [hu]mankind harnesses the 
power of love, it 
will have for the second time discovered fire."
See also noogenesis.com .

 Find anything fast with the Metacrawler .
 Or
try Virtual Tourist World Map

 Facets (in VRML) of My World 
 Personal 

 Quick Picks: 

 Sermons 
 Ancestry 
 Chronology 
 Temperament 
 Travels 
 Music and Singing 
 Poetic and Prosaic 
 Spiritual 
 Home and Garden 
 Political 
 Livelihood 
 Geometric 
 Links 

I used to publish an intimate bio for
adult gay men only, but have decided to withdraw this link
for the nonce, as it has gotten outdated. So for that sort of information,
I now ask that you 
 send me mail . 

 Holiday Greetings And
 Sermons on the Evils of Capitalism for
 '01 ,
 '00 ,
and
 Previous years.

Ancestry and Genealogy (tbp) and some family trees.
 All my known ancestors come from the region of
 Subcarpathian Ruthenia , 
in Eastern Europe, that straddles parts of the Ukraine, Poland, and 
 Eastern Slovakia ,
and settlements in Hungary, Romania and former Yugoslavia. 
They call themselves Rusyns .
 Here is a good, 
concise 
history by Dr. Paul R. Magocsi at the University of Toronto.

My Father's Father's side of the family came from the village of 
Smerekova in present data Ukraine, Zakarpatska Oblast:

Velikiy Beresniy Region . I
 visited there
 in August 1999.

 Temperament 
 According to the 
Myers-Briggs indicators ,
I am iNXj which is halfway between
 INTJ: The Mastermind
(Rational) 
and
 INFJ: The Counselor
 (Idealist) Relationships are an Achilles Heel because we expect people to behave rationally... (sigh)
There's another cute personality sorter called
 Kingdomality 
In medieval times, I would have been a:
 Benevolent Ruler ;-)

 I agree with David Hilbert's assessment of Astrology:
 "If I made a list of the ten most stupid professions,
Astrologer would be the only one on it."

 Nevertheless, the descripta on a personals DB 
derived from a birthdate of 24 June 1949 put me as

 Sun in Cancer
 Mercury in Gemini
 Venus in Cancer
 Mars in Gemini

See Chart 
and Description .

They claim the stars predict
 some combination of romanticism and rhetorical excess.
You may judge the latter by this page!

 Travels 

 Eclipse'99
trip to 
 London , 
 Ukraine -relatives, 
 Slovakia, Prague , 
Turkey (
 Istanbul , 
 Anatolia ,
 Mediterranean 
),
Greek Islands (
 Rhodes,Crete
 ).

 Europe'95 
trip in September 1995. Visits to Belgium, Netherlands,
Germany, Prague, Budapest. 
 Notes from 
'93 March on Washington .
Other trips as they are transcribed.

 Musical and Singing 
 Classical mostly, but a
soft spot for psychedelic and speed metal instrumental rock. Go figure.
Maybe it's those lycra shorts.

 Poetic 
 I read Walt Whitman and Rainer Maria Rilke and Allen Ginsberg,
and browse the American Poetry Review.
 The technical trade offers few opportunities for literary and emotional expression. How to 
change that situation?

 Prosaic 
 (No, not the antidepressant) 
Last book read: "Palimpsest: A Memoir" by
Gore Vidal.
He doesn't dish, he caters! Don't think I'd like to know him
in person...

Currently (still) Reading "A Void," the
English translation of the constraint-based novel
 La Disparition by Georges Perec of "Ou Li Po." Last 
read "Cold Mountain."

 Spiritual 
 "Christianity is an Eastern religion that has been misunderstood 
in the West."-- Fr. John Lucas.

 Until they begin to understand it better,
and distinguish it from its twin ancient prejudices 
PATRIARCHY (male-only power and
slave-ownership of women by men, along with truculent
militarism) and SEXISM. Witness, alas, the way the Pope
has disgraced himself on the matter of women in the priesthood.
Thomas Jefferson's method of reading the New Testament: Cross out everything
except that spoken by Jesus! In this way one arrives at something
that is perhaps closer to real Christianity, as opposed
to the sexist, woman-hating, anti-sexual, and stoic version that we
have from the Misanthrope of Tarsus. I am a Christian, but I am not
a "Pauline."

I consider myself
also 
 a Buddhist and a Pagan, though not in a
 sectarian sense. I'm trying simply
to spend ten minutes each weekday morning sitting quietly.
Eventually one comes to an appreciation of the common mystical
basis of all world religions.

I really dislike "New Age" stuff. It is politically reactionary (poor people
"create their own poverty," not the capitalists who exploit them), ad nauseum. 
Some of it (channeling, crystal healing, and the like) is just silly.

 Psychedelics 
have 
served from time to time as a "spiritual
laxative." Here is a Zen Limerick .
A liberal American Buddhist magazine,
 Tricycle , 
 gives some 1998 perspectives on the subject 30-some years later.

Fight the "Christian Right!" They are neither christian
nor right. They wear brown shirts 
under their religious trappings. 
The Nazis were as self-righteous and moralistic a group as you ever would see. See what they did. These religious political extremists are 
uncomfortably similar.
 As Bishop Swing of California once
remarked at SF Gay Day,
 "Fundamentalism is to Christianity as paint by numbers is to Art." 
 Amen. [Of course, the fundies hate artists, too...]

 Home and Garden 
 Is Martha Stewart living? I am starting
to dig the dirt in my new home in W. Seattle, 
have had a deck built (6/20/97),
and even
plan a Gazebo based on the 7/2-gon and Schwartz's surface.

 (click for larger .jpg ) 

 Here's a 
VRML of the proposed Seven Chakra Gazebo.
Here's a Tri-tetrahedron 

 Political 

 The UN's Universal Declaration of
Human Rights 
 Know your rights. Protect the rights of others.
There is no "corporate profit exemption" to human rights, much
as our (corporate, military, republican, country club)
power elites, Sweatshop Nike, and the WTO,
 would like to have you believe.

 Gay Identity Politics: 
There are
 Gays and 
 Feys 
and 
Bears and

longhairs and
 Twinks, and all That. The
 Gay Supremacy Website 
speaks to our unique fabulousness! 

 * See my Radical Faery Page .
The name originates with Harry Hay, still a radical in his 80's,
founder of the Mattachine Society in 1949, the first homophile organization
in the U.S. 
The faeries are
 nice bunch of folk 
all in all, some real sweeties, some savories, a few unpalatable looks-twerps.
I have continued to drift away from the faeries. Why? 
 Because... 

 * The Gay Male Bears: "You ask me why I'm such a hairy Guy..." Visit the
WWW's leading site for 

Bear resources!

 The Dognut's page for
 Gay and Bi Men with Long Hair 

 * Links to individual 
 Gay Men 
 and Radical Faeries 
 * Most of the gay male subculture
leaves me cold. The gay disease that begins with "A" is called 
 Attitude . One's worth is judged on the basis of
age, looks, weight, and wealth.
I don't like disco, having grown up with the likes of Hendrix and Joplin,
and resent people who say it is our 
music. I didn't get to vote on it. Nor have I ever found anything 
positive about the
usual 
looks-based gay male contention for sexual partners, i.e. "cruising."
Sorry, guys, it just isn't me. I am proud to say that of my 1200 or so CD's,
not a one is in the Gay MANual "must have" list.
I don't identify as a market segment. Overpriced rainbow bric-a-brac?
 Nein, danke. Feh. Blecch. Caca. 

 (Search for) Right Relationship 

A very big struggle of my life has been to find a 
compatible life partner. Trying to reconcile 
the sexual attraction (irrational, self-defeating, hooked on
looks) with the emotional qualities (compassion, support)
has led to many a blind alley. I'm terrible at
the bar scene, being shy and expecting (based on experience)
a 97% rejection rate, I have given up trying to make contact
in such venues.
 In the gay subculture, there
is precious little support for those who don't pass the
bar on youth, looks, weight, and beauty. I had my heart broken in 1980
by a cad who rejected me for not being 6'2" blond and slender.
Pity was I loved him... 

By the way, I get really riffed at the term "overweight." Do we
call tall people "overheight?" My dad and granddad were about
the same weight as me, in spite of lifelong work at physical labor.
Can you spell DNA?
 Pinched again! Potential mates are invited to
 send me mail .

 Economic Politics 

In order for "identity politics" to succeed, economic justice is required.
"Angry white males" should not be angry at women and blacks who 
need to work, too, but at the "Kountry Klub Klass" of
business owners
 who destroy jobs by automation, export them to sweatshops overseas,
 and keep
the results of increased productivity entirely to themselves
(the "capitalists take all" society). A 30,000 percent markup on sweatshop
Nike to support Phil Knight's personal $5.3 Billion?
 I'd rather not...

There's More ...

 Environmental Politics 
 Clinton has been a big disappointment, what with his
NAFTA (making the world safe for sweatshops), and his
"logging without laws" rider that is permitting the destruction
of the last old growth in the Pacific Northwest, at a loss of taxpayer
money, and to the record profit of the timber industry. Even
when environmental organizations outbid the extraction industries,
the timber is still sold to the industry at below-market cost.
Has outrageous corruption become the norm? The Ruling Class sees it
their "right" to steal public resources for their private fortunes.
The latest indignity: a $540 MILLION deal with 

Charles Hurwitz , junk
bond criminal, pension fund criminal, environmental rapist and murderer!

 Polluters have developed the strategy of (1) intimidating the
media into accepting the stories of their scientific flacks ("prof-stitutes")
who take e.g. tobacco industry money to find the established hazards of
their product "not proven," and (2) creating synthetic grass-roots 
cover 
organizations ("astro-turf") to defend Corporate Pollution under the
banner of "property rights."
If they don't experience a change of heart 
[my mantra for them "metanoia"] then
I say a good hearty "God Damn Them All!"
Hello to the Green Party !

 Right (????) Livelihood 
 I work in the 
aerospace industry. I am very conflicted about this,
because I feel I have been backed into it
by economic circumstances. 
It's not that I haven't looked
elsewhere. Reagan zeroed out all work for physicists
that wasn't defense related, and Clinton has done zilch to restore it.

My disagreement with the management of the company I work for is 
virtually complete. They are pro-war anti-labor corporate Republicans.
I am anti-war pro-labor social Democrat. They excuse human rights violations
in China with "there's plenty of money to be made there." And they're
right there with every new weapon of mass destruction that the 
Dr. Strangeloves
in the Pentagon can dream up. 

Finding a new job is nontrivial. Both times I've been unemployed
before I was on the verge of losing everything. 
Do I hang in for five more years till I can legally retire,
or try to make a big move again, with all the cost that entails?
I don't feel like going through moving, selling a house, and
all that pain again.

It's a real pinch that I feel. Work for the Evil Empire of Bill Gates, 
who makes crummy overpriced software, and
who treats all workers as "temps?" 

 I'm in a pinch. Help! 
Anybody with socially useful work that pays a middle class salary,
and can use a Princeton doctorate in physics, see my 
 Professional pages . 

 Geometry and the Imagination 

 Read the book by Hilbert and Cohn-Vossen, and anything
by H.S.M. Coxeter (not a G&S operetta).

Virtual Reality Modeling Language
( VRML )
 One of the greatest things since sliced bread. There is a 
 repository , 
and a new browser
 called 
 CosmoPlayer .
My other computer is
a
 Silicon Graphics 
 Infinite Reality! To this mix we can now add
 Java3D .

 Regular Polyhedra
 The Pavilion
of Polyhedreality (and a lot of VRML).
 "Stellatio"
 The 

 59 Stellations of the Icosahedron 
are available from the

 Minnesota Geometry Center , and can be viewed in 3D with
your favorite VRML
browser. 
Sadly, of the 358,833,072 

stellations of the rhombic triacontahedron 
only the 226 fully supported ones are available on the Web.

More Geometry

 Also check out the 

Buckminster Fuller pages and the

Geometry Junkyard .

 Links 

 Organizations I support
 and links to my enthusiasms.

 Antique Unsorted Links 
A whole directory full whither I have surfed.

Gay Men with Long Hair (a paraphilia of long standing!) 

 Send me Mail 

if you've enjoyed
my little half acre of Web!

 Back to Kerlick Eskimo Welcome 

 Spinning this Weblet 

 Dr. G. David Kerlick
 6342 34TH AVE SW
 SEATTLE WA 98126-3148
 telephone: (206) WEst 5-7762

 email: davidk@eskimo.com 
 http://www.eskimo.com/~davidk/ 

 Copyright G David Kerlick 
$Date: 1999/04/28 $