GPS and Mapping Info From WE7U 

Latest News:

The Xastir APRS program now supports USGS DRG geotiff topo maps. These
maps are available for most areas of the US free. Get the latest anonymous
CVS snapshot of the Xastir sources to gain this capability. It should appear
in the next public release as well. See my mapping page to find out how to
get access via CVS.

Go to
 Garmin Support Site 
for upgradeable firmware for GARMIN GPS's. I would suggest doing this from
DOS, not a DOS window, just to make sure it goes well. The software
for doing the programming is included in the downloadable archive.

 Differential GPS : 
 Next Topic .

First of all, buying a GPS receiver that is "DGPS Ready" does not mean that
you can use DGPS out of the box. You still need to invest in a DGPS receiver,
antenna, and cabling to hook it to your GPS. There are several types of
DGPS, and I only describe the free US Coast Guard-style DGPS here. With
USCG DGPS, you can resolve down to 1-5 meters, if your GPS is a high-quality
one. See your GPS manual for the DGPS accuracy spec. 

The other types of DGPS are: Commercial DGPS (where you get corrections from
a receiver supplied by them), and survey-grade DGPS (where you use a special
receiver that listens to the military frequency as well and might resolve down
to cm accuracy). There is also post-processing, where you collect a bunch of
data (usually RINEX format), then grab data off the net later and combine the
two in post-processing software to get more accurate positions. Post-processing
requires a receiver capable of outputing pseudo-ranges (most consumer handhelds
cannot). 

 Code For Roll-Your-Own DGPS Receiver, by Richard Cochran. 
You'll need a receiver capable of tuning 283.5 to 325 kHz, technical
skill to build an FSK or MSK modem, and plenty of patience for tuning the
shortwave receiver (the shift used is very narrow). This code for a PC-clone
will compile under Microsoft-C or Borland-C. It receives the data from the
modem on a handshake pin, and sends the RTCM-104 data out the TXD pin (which
you can then put into your GPS to get a DGPS fix). Summary: You only need
one COM port in order to do this. The author of the code was using a palmtop
computer that only had one hardware COM port (the other was IR). Here's
another place to get it, although it isn't guaranteed to be the latest:
 Curt's Anonymous FTP Site 

If you are further interested in building your own DGPS, 

I have put together
a mini-FAQ on DGPS

 that is available if you E-Mail me (Curt, WE7U). You can
send me E-Mail from the link at the top of this page.
Note that this FAQ will be of no use to those wanting to buy a DGPS receiver
and/or figure out how to use their DGPS system. It only discusses the U.S.
Coast Guard DGPS system, and does not discuss survey quality DGPS like
real-time kinematic or post-processing. U.S. Coast Guard-style DGPS will
get you generally within 1-10 meters, but I have heard that you can quite
often get 1-5 meter accuracy. It also depends on the quality of the GPS
receiver (check your manual for DGPS accuracy specs).

 Rich Heineck 
has some too-cool designs for DGPS receivers that can be carried along
while hiking/hunting/whatever (Click on the "Pocket Sized" link when
you get there. I can't say I'd recommend building the "Low Cost but Very
Basic" design of his, at least not after seeing and using the "Pocket Sized"
design. I got the opportunity to borrow one. It's very small and works great!
His PIC processor code converts the received bits into RTCM-104 data for
input into a GPS, and also runs through the parity algorithm and lights
an LED if the data stream is good. Beware that the ground from your GPS
must be isolated from the signal ground used in this circuit. The reason
is the voltage doubler circuit, which creates higher voltages to send to
the GPS (note, this is probably old info now, 'cuz his latest design doesn't
use a voltage doubler or the expensive lithium battery).
Make sure you click on the pictures. He includes source code for the PIC
processor. Stay tuned for whatever this guy comes up with next...

 A new
from-scratch DGPS receiver design by Jim Bixby . 
This receiver will cost just over $100 in parts, runs from Car/Boat battery,
and can use a whip or loopstick antenna. Control is via up/down switches,
and it shows status via an LCD display. Be patient with this server (or click
on reload a lot). This project is extremely well documented, and includes
source code for the PIC processor. Until the .pdf files get replaced you
won't be able to print out the schematics though. Contact Jim directly to
get replacement .pdf files until the new ones get updated on the web.

To find DGPS transmitter coverage areas worldwide, try
 CSI-DGPS.COM .
For more information on US Coast Guard DGPS, see
 USCG.MIL .
There is a British
site which provides DGPS at 50pence/minute over a modem w/free DGPS software (covers
150 mile radius around Ramsey, England). 

More information about DGPS: 
 Trimble 
 Sam Wormley 
 US Coast Guard 
 US Coast Guard DGPS 
 DGPS.COM 

 GPS Parallel Receivers : 
 Previous Topic .
 Next Topic .
 Go to Top .

Why buy a parallel GPS receiver?

The scanning (multiplexing) GPS receivers (anything with less than
5 parallel receivers) work reasonably well in marine, desert, or
other fairly open environments, but can fall on their face amidst
tall buildings or trees (especially trees with high moisture).
The reason is that they don't have enough tracking loops to
dedicate one for each satellite used in the fix, so
they have to multiplex between the various satellites that are in
view, and can easily lose satellites when the satellites are
obstructed, even if its only a momentary obstruction. Since four
satellites are needed to get one fix, any receiver with 5 or more
channels (tracking loops) can use the extra channels to look for
satellites with better geometry or higher signal-to-noise ratios.
If using a 12-channel unit, then each channel can be dedicated to
holding the lock on a particular satellite's signal constantly.

For heavy tree foliage, high buildings, or deep canyons, one needs
units with 5 or more parallel receiving channels (as many channels
as you can get up to 12). For marine or
aviation use, parallel channels are not as important (unless you
are just a passenger on a commercial airliner and therefore have
poor sky visibility). The extra channels not currently being used
in a fix can either search for new satellites or hold the lock on
current satellites while the other four provide a good 3-D fix.
There are three reasons to have more than five channels:

1) Extra satellites can be used to reduce SA error by up to 25%
 according to Apelco/Raytheon. GPS receiver software must be
 designed to do this of course. I've heard that newer Garmins
 may do this.

2) Extra satellites can help give an accurate fix when multipath
 reflections cause some satellite's signals to be degraded. The
 higher S/N ratio signals from the extra satellites will be used
 for the 3-D fix instead of the lower S/N ratio signals from the
 multipath reflections.

3) Tracking more satellites than are necessary for a solution helps
 in the case of obstructions, where some of the satellites are
 temporarily removed from view. The GPS receiver will merely
 grab the highest S/N ratio and closest-to-horizon satellites it
 can for the solution. If it is tracking more satellites, it has
 more to choose from.

Because 12-channel receivers are in the "inexpensive" category now,
it doesn't make sense to buy anything with fewer channels, unless
you have very specific needs that aren't met by these units (perhaps
battery-life or size). The multiplexing receivers can be compared
against parallel receivers in terms of signal-to-noise ratio (S/N).
The multiplexing receivers will appear to have a much lower S/N
ratio than the parallel receivers. Good luck getting that kind of
a figure out of the GPS manufacturers though.

 Number of Satellites Required for a Position Fix : 
 Previous Topic .
 Next Topic .
 Go to Top .

This chart shows how many satellites must be actively tracked in order
to get a fix.

No. of Satellites Fix Provided
----------------- ------------
2 -none-
3 Crude 2-D Fix
4-12 Good 3-D Fix

We need one active satellite tracked per unknown variable: Time,
latitude, longitude, altitude. More than 12 channels is wasteful
because the maximum satellites visible to any earth observer is 12.
The exception to this is the Glonass/GPS units which track the Russian
AND the U.S. satellites at the same time in order to get better
position accuracy or more satellites viewable in questionable areas.

Current GPS receivers usually optimize their solution using satellites
that are closer to the horizon, which makes the 2D position more accurate
at the expense of altitude readings. When very low to the horizon however,
the errors increase due to propagation variations through the atmosphere.
Most GPS's will have a cutoff angle below which they won't use a satellite
for these reasons. Once the satellite rises above this angle, it can be
used again in the calculations. This angle varies with the GPS model.

Here's something to think about: A submarine can get an accurate
fix with only two satellites if it has a $50,000 atomic clock
connected to the GPS receiver and they assume the altitude to be 0.

 Good Deals : 
 Previous Topic .
 Next Topic .
 Go to Top .

My interest is in land-based portables and remote sensor units. Here are my
current favorites for remote sensor units (must be hooked up to another device
to be useful, as they have no screen/keyboard). All have 12-channel receivers:

 DeLorme Tripmate $150* With Delorme Street Atlas USA 4.0
 Etak Skymap $250 Mapping system with 12-channel PCMCIA GPS, w/remote
 Garmin GPS-35PC $275 Price should be lower now on this one

* Warning about Rockwell engines:
One person has done extensive tests of several models at a fixed,
surveyed location, and has some surprising results. Please visit
 David Wilson's GPS Page .
David tested the Eagle Explorer, DeLorme Tripmate, Garmin GPS-12XL,
GPS-35, and GPS-45, with at least a few more to follow.
Please examine all available data before making a purchasing
decision.

 Table of GPS Models (Know of any more?) : 
 Previous Topic .
 Next Topic .
 Go to Top .

NOTE: For a LARGE list of available GPS units, check out the January
issue of GPS World magazine. Over 100 manufacturers listed, and many
models. I've been told that ANY January issue will do, but of course
seek out the latest one. I'm deleted my table because it was getting
way to outdated.

 General GPS Links : 
 Previous Topic .
 Next Topic .
 Go to Top .

 Joe and Jack's GPS Information 
 Peter Bennett's Web Pages . If you haven't visited this site, you don't know much about GPS.
 Peter Bennett's FTP directory . (Same info as above, different site, ftp instead of www)
 Info on Garmin Units 
 Info on embedded GPS units 
 Other GPS Links 
 Eagle GPS Info 
 ImagineGPS.com 
 GPS Info 
 Coordinate Systems 
 Global Positioning System (GPS) Resources 
 Handheld GPS's in backcountry 
 Intro to GPS Applications 
 Tim Hogard's Home page (Garmin Info) 
 http://playground.sun.com/pub/soley/garmin.txt (Garmin protocol)
 http://www.ll.mit.edu/index2.html 
 GPS Scatter Plot 
 http://www.ngs.noaa.gov/CORS/cors-data.html 
 NGS Info 
 http://www.paranoia.com/~filipg 
 http://www.fys.uio.no/~kjetikj/fjellet/GPS1.html 
 GISMO Home Page 
 http://everest.hunter.cuny.edu 
 GPS World Magazine 
 GPS World 
 GeoWeb Interactive 
 PPatama 
 SA - The Movie 
 GPS Info 
 Military GPS Info 
 Military GPS Info 
 Military GPS Info 
 Satnav 
 Stanford Autonomous Helicopter 
 Board Level GPS Receivers 
 Checking Number of Satellites in View 
 Checking Number of Satellites in View 
 Checking Number of Satellites in View 
 NMEA Decoder, speaks to you 

 GPS Vendors : 
 Previous Topic .
 Next Topic .
 Go to Top .

 List of GPS Distributors 
 Garmin 8-channel group buy at TAPR 
 Bass Pro, 1-800-BASS-PRO
 Bass Pro Shops 
 Boat/U.S., 1-800-937-2628
 Boater's World, 1-800-826-2628, 206-575-1920?
 The Boating Center, 716-385-3060
 Cabellas , 1-800-237-4444, 308-234-5555 (foreign orders)
 Cansel.ca 
 CommSystems Intermountain 
 DCI 
 Defender Industries, 1-800-628-8225
 E&B Marine, 1-800-533-5007, 908-819-7400
 Fred Meyer
 The Glass Cockpit 
 GPS Marketplace 
 Gulf Coast Avionics 
 Inland Marine, Salem, OR, 1-800-324-1356
 J. Beadles 
 James Associates , lwjames@csn.net, 303-530-9014 (Garmin Dealer)
 K-Mart
 Magellan Systems Corp. Home Page 
 MarineNet 
 Mathew Vangel and Associates (Garmin Dealer)
 Mercat GPS Dealer 
 Mud Hole 
 NavTech 
 North Coast Resource Management 
 Northern Lights Avionics 
 NoVatel 
 Offshore Angler, 1-800-4-OFFSHORE
 Premier GPS 
 TT Designs 
 Walmart
 Weak Industries (Book) 
 West Marine , 1-800-538-0775, 408-728-2700
 Most any marine/camping/hunting supply catalog or store
 gps4fun.com 

 GPS Manufacturers : 
 Previous Topic .
 Next Topic .
 Go to Top .

 3S Navigation 
 Apelco (Raytheon) 
 Ashtech 
 Canadian Marconi 
 Corvallis MicroTechnology 
 CSI DGPS 
 Delorme (Made by Rockwell?)
 Eagle (Lowrance) 
 Eagle (Lowrance) Italian?
 Etak 
 Garmin, 1-800-800-1020, 913-397-8200, 913-397-8282 (Fax), 913-599-2103 (Fax)
 General Electric/GEC-Plessey 
 II Morrow
 Impule (See Uniden)
 Koden
 Leica
 Lowe (Antennas) 
 Lowrance Electronics 
 Magellan 
 Magellan 
 Matsushita (See Panasonic)
 Micrologic
 MLR
 Motorola 
 Motorola Government Space and Technology Group 
 Motorola Oncore GPS Engine 
 Northstar
 NovAtel
 Panasonic 
 Premier GPS 
 Raytheon/Apelco 
 Rockwell 
 Sercel 
 Silva
 Sitex
 Sony 
 Stanford Telecom
 Tigershark
 Trimble , 1-800-545-7762
 Uniden/Impulse 

 GPS-Related Software : 
 Previous Topic .
 Next Topic .
 Go to Top .

 Peter Bennett's Web Pages . Don't all searches begin here?
 Peter Bennett's FTP directory . (Same info as above, different site, ftp instead of www)
 GARtrip Software 
 GARtrip (English) 
 GARtrip (German) 
 GARtrip (English) 
 GARtrip (German) 
 G7TO 
 Windows program for Tripmate 
 Waypoint+ Software 
 S/W to extract waypoints from Eagle AccuNav WS-1 file 
 GPS Up/Download SW 
 GPS Daemon for Linux 
 GpsPilot, S/W for USR Pilot 
 PilotGPS, S/W for USR Pilot 
 Magellan waypoint up/download sw and DOS GPS SW 
 Avia SW to maintain aviation databases 
 MCGPS 
 PinPoint Systems , and PinPoint Systems (2nd address) 
 Installing SA4 as helper app under Netscape 
 Gardown SW 
 MacGPS Pro SW 
 Voice I/O for AAA Map 'n' Go and Street Atlas 4.0 
 AutoGPS (overlays current location onto AutoRoute)
 PsiGar (Psion to Garmin ul/dl waypoints)
 MM3A 
 En Route 
 JavaScript Distance Calculator 
 Distance Formulas 
 Speak your speed 
 AirNav 
 GPSdb 
 Garmin GPS-25/35 control software 
 HP48 -> Garmin SW 
 Compucat Fleet Tracking System 
 Navpak 
 SkyDiver Program for PalmPilot 

 On-Line Mapping and Waypoint Servers : 
 Previous Topic .
 Next Topic .
 Go to Top .

 Map Databases 
 Geographic Name Server (Requires telnet)
 NORAD Two-line Satellite Orbital Elements 
 TAMU-Commerce GPS Waypoint Server 
 Interactive US Maps down to street level w/lat-long (Etak Database) 
 Online Mapping 
 Interactive US Maps (ETAK Database) 
 US Gazetteer (Tiger Database) 
 Tiger Mapping Service 
 Interactive Maps 
 Map Quest 
 Geocode 
 Geocode 
 Infoseek Street Maps (Click on "Street Maps")
 NIMA Geonet Names Server 
 Terraserver 

 Mapping Software and Complete Systems : 
 Previous Topic .
 Go to Top .

 Review of Mapping Software (Telson) 
 Reviews of Mapping Software (Site in Germany)
 Reviews of Mapping Software (Peter Bennett's Site)
 Reviews of Mapping Software 
 Alpine Mapping System 
 Alpine Mapping System Also 
 APRS Info at TAPR 
 APRS SW at Rutgers 
 AVL Fleet Mapping Software 
 Capn SW, supports USGS topo & marine charts 
 Phillips/Magnavox Carins System 
 CHART 
 Delorme AAA MapNGo 
 Delorme MapExpert 
 Delorme Street Atlas USA 
 Delorme 3-D Explorer USA 
 Dem3d Viewer (USGS) 
 dKart Navigator 
 DRG Maps 
 Earth Visions topo maps 
 Elgaard Positioning System 
 Etak Skymap 
 Fawnbench for Psion 
 FlexGPS 
 Fugawi 
 http://www.GPSGIS.com (GPS-LINK and GPS-MAP software)
 GPS Glide, S/W for HPx00LX 
 GPSMap (Newton)
 GPSMap (Newton)
 GpsPro 
 GPSS 
 Gpsy (Use with SA3 for Mac) 
 DOS & Palmtop SW 
 LoranGPS SW 
 LXGPS HP100/200LX Moving Map SW 
 Map&Guide (Web page is in German)
 MapSite Mapping Software 
 MicroDEM or WinDEM 
 MicroDEM or WinDEM 
 Microplot 
 Microsoft Automap Streets Plus 
 Microsoft Automap Trip Planner 
 Microsoft Pocket Automap Streets for Windows CE 
 Microsoft AutoRoute for Europe 
 Moving Map Info (appears to be oriented towards pilots) 
 Nav Master 
 Newton SW 
 NobelTec's Visual Navigation Suite 
 OziExplorer: GPS Software & Tips 
 Pioneer Navigation System 
 Precision Mapping 
 Psi-Mapper , SW for Psion PDA's
 Rand McNally Street Finder 
 Retki Metroguide 2.0 
 SARMAP 
 TDC for Psion 
 Teletype GPS Software 
 Vista 
 Xmap and gpsd daemon