WE7U's Home Pages 

APRS is an amateur radio system to send/receive GPS position data.
It can be used to keep track of mobile and fixed resources, weather reports,
hurricanes, trouble area, etc. I'm working to integrate it into the local
search and rescue organization. Many areas are integrating it into their
local EOC offices.
Here's a link to my
 Turnkey APRS Web Pages 

 oriented towards SAR and APRS, and here's another
 more general APRS link 

to get you started. Software is available for DOS, Mac, Win32, Linux, Solaris,
FreeBSD, PalmOS, WinCE, and probably others.
Here are a good set of
 APRS tutorials 

written by Arte Booten, n2zrc.

The Xastir APRS program now has support for geoTIFF image files,
including USGS DRG topo maps. It'll tile together a seamless topo map
from multiple 7.5' topo maps and plot APRS objects and tracks on top of
them. Check out the latest CVS snapshot to get this capability. It
should appear in the next public release of Xastir as well. Here's the
 Xastir Home Page. 
 .
Xastir includes support for local Linux AX25 devices, can connect to
remote aprs servers, and can connect to remote GPS data via the GPSD
daemon. You can even automate saving screenshots to JPEG files to
be read by web browsers. Did I mention that Xastir is free, including
sources, and runs on Linux, Solaris, Mac OS X and FreeBSD? Sorry, we
don't do Windows.

Xastir description and CVS instructions. 

 Free UTM Tools .
These are useful for translating to/from paper maps. It's much easier to
get a more accurate position plotted using these tools.

Here's a site where you can get USGS DRG topo maps as well as other types
of maps:
 GIS Data Depot .
Unfortunately only some of their data is free now.

A new vendor of topo maps that looks interesting:
 Igage.com .

 Interested in digital maps? Get MicroDEM from

Peter Guth's Web Site , which handles USGS DEM/DLG, Tiger, and Satellite image
files. This program allows you to draw color topo maps or 3-D surface maps, which
can be overlaid on top of satellite images. It can also overlay roads and waterways
on top of the maps. Win32 program. Snag the example files as well to try it
out, then go to the USGS site and get the DEM and DLG files for the areas of
interest.

For a site that will show you topo's online, check here:
 TopoZone.com .

ArcExplorer is a free package that can be used to view USGS DRG files. Other
good programs for use with DRG's are OziExplorer and Fugawi (see my GPS page, last
section).

 SARMAP, for Search & Rescue personnel 
gives the capability to draw topographic maps with roads/water overlays on
a Windows PC. It uses the USGS DEM/DLG files also. Go to "programs/sarmap"
directory. It is getting a bit dated though. I've also noticed that DLG
and DEM files are not quite aligned properly. Nice program overall though.

Check out
 DLGV32 
for a Win32 viewer for DLG-O and DRG files (free from the USGS).

Go to the

US Geological Survey 
to get DEM or DLG digital map files for any place in the U.S. They have
more detailed DLG files available now than the 1:100 scale ones.
A few map files may also be found at the
 Xerox FTP Site .
Here are the
 USGS Home Page , and the
 USGS Data Products Page . 

 Elgaard Positioning System .
This is Java software which is GPL'ed (free including sources), which runs inside a browser
(Internet Explorer/Netscape) or within the Java JDK. If using Linux, the program can
directly communicate with a GPS using the GPSTRANS program (See Peter Bennett's Site on
my GPS page). Scanned maps just have to be rectangles in GIF or JPG format, but can be
any size/scale.

 Digitized 7.5 minute USGS topo maps 
are now available on CD-ROM. They are in the
neighborhood of $32 (US) per CD-ROM, and each one contains 1 degree by 1 degree of maps,
which equates to approximately 64 maps on a disk. They are stored in large TIFF files. 

Another good mapping program to check out is
 GPSS , which will allow your GPS equipped
laptop to have moving map capability. If you have a sound card in it, it can speak to
you to tell you your location. Uses BMP maps and WAV sound files (yes, you can add maps and
sounds to it). Here are some other sites from which to get GPSS:
 ehssun1.lbl.gov ,
and ourworld.compuserve.com .

 Click here for more map links. 

Make sure to check out my 
 GPS Page 

for many more map links.