Guitar Noise - Privacy Statement 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Intermediate Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , Privacy 
 Statement 

 Privacy Statement 

 We do not collect personal information on this site. 

 The Internet is a great place to learn about the guitar, 
 and just about anything else for that matter. From this website 
 you have the opportunity to take online guitar lessons, find 
 tablature, surf to other guitar sites and even communicate 
 with teachers and other guitarists. It is important to us 
 at GuitarNoise that all of our visitors retain their privacy 
 while taking advantage of all the Internet has to offer. 
 At times GuitarNoise collects statistical information about 
 who is surfing our websites. We do not collect any personal 
 information and we never disclose any of this information 
 to anyone not directly associated with the operation of this 
 site. We do not participate in programs that share information. 
 Your information will never be sold, traded or given away. 
 Your email address will never wind up on someone else's mailing 
 list because of us. 
 GuitarNoise adheres to the following Privacy Principles: 

 Principle 1 
 Any information collected is used only in an effort to improve 
 the quality of this website and projects directly related 
 to it, such as books and other learning materials about 
 playing guitar. 
 Principle 2 
 GuitarNoise will not send unsolicited email except in the 
 case of abuse of our website or its visitors. We will never 
 send you unsolicited email that includes commercial offers 
 or advertisements. 

 What this means to you is that we are committed to protecting 
 your privacy and developing a website that gives you a powerful, 
 safe, online experience without any hassles. 
 GuitarNoise does not collect personal information from you. 
 At times you may be asked to voluntarily submit information 
 if you wish to receive our newsletter, participate in BBS 
 discussions, chats etc. Please remember that chat sessions 
 and our interactive forum are considered public areas and 
 you are responsible for your actions in these areas. 
 You should also be aware that any personal information you 
 share may be available to others outside our organization. 

 Questions regarding this statement should be sent to the webmaster . 

 Back to top 

 Copyright &copy; 2003 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. Masterlist. Privacy Statement. Contact Us.