Pure Mac: Action Games - Software for Macintosh 

 Action Games 

 Web 

 Pure-Mac.com 

 Alice 
 Aliens vs. Predator 
 Battlefield 1942 
 Call of Duty 
 Call of Duty 2 
 Call of Duty 4 
 Deep Trouble 
 Deep Trouble 2 
 Descent II 
 Doom 
 Doom 3 

 Duke Nukem 3D 
 Enemy Engaged 
 Enemy Territory Quake Wars 
 Excalibur: Morgana's Revenge 
 Ghost Recon 
 Halo 
 Hexen 2 
 Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy 
 Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast 
 LEGO Star Wars 
 LEGO Star Wars II 

 Lugaru 
 Marathon 
 Marathon II 
 Marathon Infinity 
 Medal of Honor 
 Nexuiz 
 Oni 
 Penguins Arena 
 Postal 2 

 Prey 
 Quake 
 Quake 2 
 Quake 3: Arena 
 Quake 4 
 Raven Shield 
 Return to Castle Wolfenstein 
 Rubicon X 
 Sauerbraten 
 SiN 

 Soldier of Fortune II 
 Spider-Man 2 
 Star Trek Voyager: Elite Force 
 Star Wars: Battlefront 
 Stubbs the Zombie 
 Tomb Raider: Chronicles 
 Tomb Raider Anniversary 
 Unreal Tournament 
 Unreal Tournament 2003 
 Unreal Tournament 2004 
 Wolfenstein: Enemy Territory 
 XIII 

 If you're looking for action games for Mac OS 8/9, check the Classic Action Games page. 

 Many servers which serve game files are slow (even if you have a fast connection). Many of these files are large.
 You might want a Download Manager . 

 Pure Mac 
 Games 

 Action 
 Arcade 
 Board 
 Card 
 Emulators 
 Flight Sims 
 Frivolous 
 Game Utilities 
 MMOG 
 Puzzle 
 RPG 
 Sports & Racing 
 Strategy 
 Word 

 Home 

 Astronomy 
 Calculators & Math 
 Charts & Graphs 
 Collections 
 Health 
 Hobbies & Crafts 
 Kid Stuff 
 Language 
 Parental Control 
 Recipes 
 Science 
 Teaching Aids 
 Typing 
 Weather 

 Internet 

 Collaboration 
 Distributed Computing 
 Download Managers 
 Email 
 FTP 
 Internet Utilities 
 iPhone 
 IRC & IM 
 Online Games 
 Peer-to-Peer 
 Radio 
 Remote Access 
 Usenet 
 Video Conferencing 
 VoIP 

 Multimedia 

 Audio 
 CAD 
 Comics 
 DTP 
 eBook 
 Font Utilities 
 Graphics 
 iTunes & MP3 
 Media Center 
 Music 
 Photoshop Plug-ins 
 Presentation 
 3D & Animation 
 Screen Capture 
 Video 

 System 

 Alternative OS 
 Classic OS Updates 
 Command Line 
 Contextual Menus 
 Cross-Platform 
 CSMs 
 Drivers 
 Face-Lift 
 Launchers 
 Olden 
 Screen Savers 
 Security 
 System Enhancements 
 Virus 
 Widgets 
 X11 

 Utilities 

 Backup 
 Business 
 Compression 
 Database 
 Diagnostics 
 Disk & File 
 Finance 
 Handhelds 
 Network 
 PIMs 
 Programming 
 Spreadsheets 
 Stocks 
 Telephony 
 Text Editors 
 Time 

 WWW 

 Auctions 
 Browsers 
 Browser Add-ons 
 The Cloud & SSBs 
 HTML Editors 
 Page Rippers 
 RSS & Podcasting 
 Site Tweaking 
 Social Networking 
 Web Cams 
 Web Graphics 
 Web Server 

 Extension Key 
 Pure Picks 
 Software Index 

 Alice 1.1.2 

American McGee's Alice is a strangely familiar, yet utterly wicked adventure. Alice
answers a distress summons and returns to Wonderland. Upon her return she barely
recognizes the befouled setting. From the fungal rot of the Mushroom Forest to the
infernal chemistry of the Mad Hatter's Domain and beyond, Wonderland is in chaos.
Undaunted by the diseased ambiance, cavernous confusion, and mortal danger that surrounds
her, Alice must undo the chaos. Equipped with courage, a keen appetite for the bizarre,
and a lethal array of mischievous toys, she must penetrate the stronghold of her enemies,
confront the forces of evil and put the wicked Queen of Hearts in her place.

Alice features stunning third person, 3D action based on enhanced Quake III technology,
devious puzzles and labyrinthine mazes and familiar characters transformed. Included
levels are reminiscent of the Pool of Tears, the Caterpillar's Garden, the Mad Hatter's
Tea Party and more. Enemies include the ferocious Card Guards, demonic Fire Imps, ravenous
Jabberspawn and more. The original soundtrack is composed and arranged by Chris Vrenna,
award winning artist and founding member of Nine Inch Nails.

 License : Demo, $45
 Author/Publisher : Aspyr Media
 Modification Date : March 1, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 6.2 MB - 1.1.2 Updater

 Download 
File Size: 82.0 MB - Demo - Demo not Compatible with Leopard

 Home Page 

 Aliens vs. Predator 1.0.9 

Chase, hide or advance in over 40 levels of the most nightmarish,
chillingly detailed futuristic environment your mind could ever imagine.
Now the three most ferocious species in the universe are pitted against
one another in a battle for the ultimate prize- survival.

Choose to be a Colonial Marine, a Predator, or an Alien as you make your
way through horrifyingly suspenseful environments ranging from
spaceships and colonial bases to spacestations and eerie planetscapes.
One wrong move turns you from hunter into prey. Your species is counting
on you.

 License : Demo, $20
 Author/Publisher : MacPlay
 Modification Date : September 30, 2003
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.0.4 or higher and Mac OS 8.6 and higher

 Download 
File Size: 3.2 MB - 1.0.9 Updater

 Battlefield 1942 1.6.1d 

Battlefield 1942: Secret Weapons of WWII lets you control lethal
experimental weapons from World War II. Straight from Allied and Axis
laboratories, many of these weapons never saw combat until now.

Defeat your enemies with a variety of experimental firepower, including
the Wasserfall Guided Rocket, the Natter Rocker Plane, and the
revolutionary Rocket Pack. Drop from a cargo plane behind enemy lines
and prepare for close combat with one-shot-kill knives, new machine
guns, and more. Give all of these weapons and vehicles a trial by fire
on eight new battle maps.

 License : Demo, $30
 Author/Publisher : Aspyr Media
 Modification Date : July 20, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2.8 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 300 MB - Demo

 Download 
File Size: 9.1 MB - Update 1.6.1d

 Home Page 

 Call of Duty 1.5c 

In Call of Duty, you get to fight alongside your brothers-in-arms as
history comes alive. In momentous battles from D-Day to Stalingrad,
you'll find yourself in incredibly real terrain, caught in breathtaking
life and death combat. You'll fight as American and British paratroopers
and as a young Russian soldier conscripted into the Soviet Army. Whether
cut off in a village in Normandy, battling to re-take Red Square,
boarding and sinking a German battleship, speeding down German-held
roads or rescuing Allied officers from a German stronghold, the dangers
are more than any one soldier can overcome. To make it through, you'll
need your buddies around you, and they'll need you. That's what war is
about, and it's what Call of Duty is all about.

 License : Demo, $45
 Author/Publisher : Aspyr Media
 Modification Date : April 15, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2.8 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 256 MB - Demo

 Download 
File Size: 333 MB - Call of Duty 1.5c Update and Call of Duty: United Offensive 1.5.1c Update

 Home Page 

 Call of Duty 2 1.3 

Call of Duty 2 redefines the cinematic intensity and chaos of battle as
seen through the eyes of ordinary soldiers fighting together in epic
WWII conflicts. The sequel to 2003's Call of Duty, winner of over 80
Game of the Year awards, Call of Duty 2 offers more immense, more
intense, more realistic battles than ever before, thanks to the stunning
visuals of the new COD 2 engine.

 License : Demo, $50
 Author/Publisher : Aspyr Media
 Modification Date : September 12, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher, 1.8 GHz or higher

 Download 
File Size: 43.4 MB - 1.3 Patch

 Download 
File Size: 666.0 MB - 1.0 Demo

 Home Page 

 Call of Duty 4 1.7.1 

Featuring a tense storyline, filled with plot twists, the title thrusts
players into battle like never before. With amazing special effects,
including rim-lighting, depth of field, texture streaming and character
self-shadowing, players are enlisted into one of the most
photo-realistic gaming experiences imaginable.

The community-oriented Call of Duty 4 multiplayer gameplay features a
robust leveling system, variety of unlockable perks, hot-join and
matchmaking, as well as create a class and party capabilities to ensure
that players of all skill levels can join in the fun. Additionally over
100 challenges and a host of new game environments and modes deliver
unlimited possibilities. Infinity Ward has also included Kill-Cam, a fan
favorite feature that they created in Call of Duty 2, which allows for
spectator instant replays.

 License : Update, $55
 Author/Publisher : Aspyr Media
 Modification Date : October 15, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.5.4 or higher, Intel Core 2 Duo, 2.0 GHz or higher

 Download 
File Size: 259 MB - Version 1.7 Patch

 Home Page 

 Deep Trouble 1.0.4 

DeepTrouble is a fast paced 3D action game taking place under water
where you fight alien colonies.

Most of earth is covered with water after the polar ices melted. The
water is now becoming contaminated with an unknown pollutant. A team in
an explorer submarine is sent down to try to find out what's causing the
contamination and discovers underwater constructions on the ocean floor
built by an unknown alien race. Your mission is to destroy the
Constructions to save the water and stop the alien invasion.

 License : Shareware, $20
 Author/Publisher : CodeBlender Software
 Modification Date : May 12, 2003
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.1 or higher and Mac OS 9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 39.2 MB - Demo

 Home Page 

 Deep Trouble 2 2.0 

The year is 2268. After more than 100 years the planet Earth has slowly recovered from the
previous ecological disaster and the unexpected invasion from an unknown alien race.

DeepTrouble 2 features 11 levels with gorgeous and detailed graphics made possible by the
use of OpenGL's vertex and fragment shaders. Bump mapping, dynamic shadows and other
advanced techniques add to the highly detailed graphics. OpenAL is being used to bring out
great sound effects that will immerse you into the game together with the suspenseful
music.

 License : Demo, $25
 Author/Publisher : CodeBlender Software
 Modification Date : November 28, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2.8 or higher, G4 800 Mhz or faster

 Download 
File Size: 41.2 MB

 Home Page 

 Descent II 1.14.19 

If you thought Descent went to the edge of 360 degree 3D power-blasting
sensory insanity, then prepare yourself. You're about to plunge over the
edge, and into the depths of Descent II. Suddenly warped into the outer
reaches of the Zeta Aquilae System, your new mission sends you into the
black depths of treacherous alien mines. You blast through enemy robots
with powerful new tools, leaving their flaming hulks in your exhaust.
Your ultimate goal: to exterminate the alien robot stronghold from the
enemy Alien Base and claim total control - it's 30 new levels of
outrageous destruction.

 License : Demo
 Author/Publisher : MacPlay/Doverstreet
 Modification Date : April 18, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 8.4 MB - Open GL D2X-XL 1.14.19 Universal

 Download 
File Size: 8.1 MB - D2X for MacOS X by Jeremy - Includes the Mac version of the Descent 2 Demo files - August 31, 2005

 D2X Home Page 

 Doom 1.0.1 

One of the most popular games of all time.
First Person shoot-em-up. Hours of play here.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : id Software
 Modification Date : September 27, 1995
 Requirements : 68040 or better, System 7.1 or better and of course Mac OS X for Doom Legacy

 Download 
File Size: 4.5 MB - Doom Legacy v1.40 - Released November 06, 2002

 Download 
File Size: 3378 Kb - Mac Demo

 Parent Directory 

 Doom Legacy 

 Doom 3 1.3.1rA 

The ruins of an ancient Martian civilization have unlocked the secrets
to teleportation, and the UAC will stop at nothing to harness this
world-altering technology. As part of a marine detachment sent to
protect the facility, your duty seemed simple enough - until the invasion.
Now, in an epic clash against pure evil you must fight to understand who
is with you, who is against you, and what must be done to stop this
nightmare from reaching Earth. Built on ID's revolutionary new 3D
graphics engine DOOM 3 draws you into the most frightening and gripping
3d gaming experience ever created.

 License : Demo, $45
 Author/Publisher : Aspyr Media
 Modification Date : February 2, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.8 or higher, G4/G5/Intel 1.5 GHz or higher

 Download 
File Size: 463 MB - 1.0 Demo

 Download 
File Size: 11.1 MB - 1.3.1 updater

 Home Page 

 Duke Nukem 3D 1.5 

Murderous aliens have landed in futuristic Los Angeles, and the humans
suddenly find themselves atop the endangered species list. The odds are
a million-to-one, just the way Duke likes it! Full movement control lets
you run, jump, crawl, swim,and jetpack your way through hostile
environments as you look up and down. 
This package (the OS X port) includes an installer that will install the
game from either the PC "Atomic Edition" disc, or the MacSoft disc from
the Mac Classic version of the game. If you don't have a retail disc,
the installer can give you the free shareware episode.

 License : Demo - Purchase for $29.95
 Author/Publisher : Lion Entertainment/MacSoft
 Modification Date : December 16, 2004
 Requirements : 68040 or PPC and Mac OS X

 Download 
File Size: 20.2 MB - OS X 1.5 update and Demo

 Download 
File Size: 6152 Kb - PPC version 1.2 - Demo

 Download 
File Size: 6128 Kb - 68040 version 1.2 - Demo

 Download 
File Size: 579 Kb - 1.2 Updater - Full version

 Home Page 

 Enemy Engaged 1.0 

Enemy Engaged: RAH-66 Comanche Versus KA-52 Hokum is the sequel of the
1998 successful Apache Havoc by Razorworks.

With Enemy Engaged you're in for the ultimate helicopter flight and
combat experience. We're talking seriously realistic 3D simulation here,
with animated pilots, state of the art cockpit and landscape design and
TRULY dynamic campaigns. Surpassing even the graphic standard of the
acclaimed Apache Havoc and with enough attention to detail to please
even the most ardent simulation enthusiasts, Enemy Engaged definitely
sets the standard for the 21st century chopper sims.

 License : Shareware, $45
 Author/Publisher : Feral Interactive Ltd.
 Modification Date : July 16, 2004
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 86.0 MB

 Home Page 

 Enemy Territory: Quake Wars 1.5 

Built using id Software's revolutionary MegaTexture rendering
technology, Enemy Territory: QUAKE Wars features strategic team play,
persistent character promotions, and the universe's most powerful
weapons and vehicles in heroic objective-based battles as the Global
Defense Force faces off against the alien Strogg invasion. Battles rage
on stunning battlefields inspired by tropical, arctic, temperate, urban
and desert locations both online and offline against lethal A.I.
combatants. With unmatched graphics, physics, networking, and
story-driven military missions, Enemy Territory: QUAKE Wars transports
players to the front lines of the ultimate war for Earth.

 License : Full Game $50, Free Update
 Author/Publisher : Aspyr
 Modification Date : June 12, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 112 MB - version 1.5 Update

 Home Page 

 Excalibur: Morgana's Revenge 3.0 

EMR 3.0 is a unique scenario based upon the Aleph One (Marathon) engine.
It is a first-person action adventure game, featuring an epic and
in-depth story line. As a Federation Marine resting after your last
mission, you start aboard the exploration class Starship Kronos where
you learn that your real mission has yet to begin. You are re-acquainted
with the AI Merlin, who introduces you to Kronos time traveling
technology, and reveals your new mission: to save mankind from the
clutches of Morgana and her minions. Through untamed raptor-infested
jungles, castle arenas, and war-torn streets of the future, you will
wield weapons from all time periods - including the Sword of Power,
Excalibur - in an effort to thwart the diabolical plot that unfolds. The
EMR adventure, spread across 42 solo levels, weaves a tale of truth and
honor, knighthood and bravery, and darkness and treachery. EMR also
delivers 27 adrenaline pumped network levels. EMR immerses you in an
amazing new world, creating an addictive, fun and unique gaming
experience.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Excaliburworld
 Modification Date : May 19, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 238 MB

 Download 
File Size: 234 MB

 Home Page 

 Ghost Recon 1.0.3 

The amazing combat experience Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon and award-winning
expansion pack, Desert Siege, come together to turn your Macintosh into
a pivotal wartime control center. In Ghost Recon, Russia has fallen to
ultra-nationalistic leaders driven to rebuild the Iron Curtain. In
Desert Siege, 60-year conflict boils over as Ethiopia invades its
smaller neighbor Eritrea, threatening the world's most vital shipping
lanes in the Red Sea. Command this elite team of U.S. Army Green Berets
through a series of demolitions, search and rescue missions and all-out
fights for survival. Select, train and lead the offensive spearhead as
the first team deployed and the last team to leave. Ghost Recon and the
Desert Siege expansion pack put you in the deadly, realistic combat of
tomorrow's battlefields like no other game. If you meet them in combat,
you're already dead.

 License : Demo, purchase for $50
 Author/Publisher : Aspyr Media
 Modification Date : October 14, 2003
 Requirements : Mac OS X and Mac OS 9

 Download 
File Size: 2.7 MB - 1.0.3 Updater

 Download 
File Size: 70.8 MB - Demo

 Home Page 

 Halo 2.0.3 

You are the last of your kind. Bred for combat, built for war. You will
fight on foot, in vehicles, in the air and beneath the surface of a
mysterious alien ring orbiting in the depths of space.

Recognized as one of the greatest achievements in video game
entertainment. The Macintosh version adds
16-person online multiplayer, new vehicles, new weapons, new maps,
customizable multiplayer games, the precision of playing with a mouse
and keyboard and more.

Halo owners who have not upgraded to an Intel-based Mac do not need to upgrade their version of Halo. They will still be able to play network games against owners of the Universal version.

 License : Update, purchase for $50
 Author/Publisher : Microsoft/Bungie/MacSoft
 Modification Date : August 12, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2.8 or later, 512MB RAM, and an 800MHz G4 or faster

 Download 
File Size: 4.1 MB - Halo 2.x to 2.0.3 Universal Updater - April 27, 2007

 Download 
File Size: 650 MB - Halo Universal Updater 2.0 (cost $5 for the updater) - August 16, 2006

 Download 
File Size: 3.6 MB - 1.5.2 Updater - May 27, 2005

 Download 
File Size: 122.0 MB - Demo

 Home Page 

 Hexen 2 1.1b3 

The four horseman of the Apocalypse lurk in the shadows before you. They
are Death, Pestilence, Famine and War. They are the root of all that is
evil. They are the least of your worries.

HeXen II features four single player hubs and deathmatch capabilities
for 16 players while simultaneously offering four character classes,
each with four weapons with dual fire modes for a total of 32 unique
weapon effects. HeXen II is the first 3-D shooter to feature transparent
water effects in both hardware and software rendering modes and one of
the only fully 3-D games to feature single player cooperative gameplay.

 License : Demo, $20
 Author/Publisher : MacPlay
 Modification Date : June 30, 2002
 Requirements : Mac OS 8.6 or higher and Mac OS X with the Open Source patch

 Download 
File Size: 984 Kb - 1.1b3 Application (Full version of Hexen 2 required to play)

 Download 
File Size: 984 Kb - 1.1b3 Demo Application (you need the Demo files below to play)

 Download 
File Size: 12.8 MB - Demo Files

 GLHexen 2 

 Home Page 

 Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy 1.0.1e 

Forge your weapon and follow the path of the Jedi!

Take on the role of a new student eager to learn the ways of the Force from Jedi Master Luke Skywalker.

Customize your character and interact with famous Star Wars characters in many unique Star Wars locations where you face powerful enemies. You can build your own lightsaber and use the level selection system to choose your own path through the game.

You must now make the ultimate choice: Fight for good and freedom on the light side or follow the path of power and evil to the dark side.

 License : Demo, $50
 Author/Publisher : Aspyr Media
 Modification Date : August 25, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 7.6 MB - 1.0.1e Updater

 Download 
File Size: 186.8 MB - Demo

 Home Page 

 Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast 1.03c 

The rebel Jedi Kyle Katarn is back and ready to take you on his most
exciting adventure yet!

Several years have passed since Kyle avenged his father's death and
saved the Valley of the Jedi from Jerec and his band of Dark Jedi.
Allowing his Force powers to languish for fear of falling to the dark
side, Kyle entrusted his lightsaber to Luke Skywalker, vowing never to
use it again. But when a new and menacing threat to the galaxy emerges,
Kyle knows he must reclaim his past in order to save his future. Players
assume the role of Kyle as they employ a unique mix of weapons, Force
powers and your lightsaber in both single- and multiplayer modes.

 License : Demo, $50
 Author/Publisher : Aspyr Media
 Modification Date : August 29, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.1 or higher and Mac OS 9.1 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 4.6 MB - 1.0.3c Updater

 Download 
File Size: 62.7 MB - Demo

 Home Page 

 LEGO Star Wars 1.0 Rev A 

For the first time ever, one of the world's most successful film series
meets one of the world's favorite toys in an epic new video game.

Play the whole story of Episode I: The Phantom Menace, Episode II:
Attack of the Clones and Episode III: Revenge of the Sith - three movies
in one game!

From Anakin Skywalker and Yoda, to Darth Maul and General Grievous,
control over 30 of your favorite characters.

 License : Demo, $30
 Author/Publisher : Aspry Media
 Modification Date : April 4, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.8 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 217 MB - Demo

 Download 
File Size: 4.7 MB - Rev A Updater

 Home Page 

 LEGO Star Wars II 1.0 

LEGO Star Wars II follows the Rebel Alliance's battle to dismantle the
Galactic Empire and rebuild a galaxy in pieces. From Darth Vader's
pursuit of Princess Leia aboard her blockade runner to a showdown on the
reconstructed Death Star, the game includes all the family-friendly LEGO
action that made LEGO Star Wars I such a success.

 License : Demo, $40
 Author/Publisher : Feral Interactive
 Modification Date : May 2, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 399 MB - Demo

 Home Page 

 Lugaru 1.0.6 

Lugaru (pronounced Loo-GAH-roo) is a third-person action title.
The main character, Turner, is an anthropomorphic rebel bunny rabbit
with impressive combat skills. In his quest to find those responsible for slaughtering his
village, he uncovers a far-reaching conspiracy involving the corrupt leaders of the rabbit
republic and the starving wolves from a nearby den. Turner takes it upon himself to fight
against their plot and save his fellow rabbits from slavery.
 Lugaru's primary feature is its unique combat system. Instead of relying on confusing
button combinations to perform moves, Lugaru's moves are all logical and context
sensitive. For example, if an opponent aims a roundhouse kick at Turner's head, you can
crouch and then stand up under the attack to grab your assailant's leg and kick him away.
If you try and punch an opponent and he tries to throw you over his shoulder, you can
crouch to roll painlessly out of the throw. This new combat system makes fights look and
feel much more intense and believable than in any other game. You can see it in action
with the gameplay movies above.

 License : Shareware, $20
 Author/Publisher : Wolfire Software
 Modification Date : February 24, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 25.6 MB

 Home Page 

 Marathon 1.2 

Marathon is set far in the future on a colony ship in outer space. A security officer on the mission,
you are the last hope for defending the ship as hostile and intelligent aliens prepared to destroy every
living thing. Marathon provides the player with amazing futuristic weaponry, introduces a multitude
of horrifying creatures and traverses hundreds of miles of terrain over multiple elevations, all
depicted in high resolution graphics.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Bungie
 Modification Date : March 10, 1995
 Requirements : 68020, 68040 or PPC recommended

 Download 
File Size: 38 MB - Marathon Data Files for Use With Aleph One - September 29, 2005

 Download 
File Size: 8.3 MB - Aleph One 20080721 - released July 21, 2008

 Download 
File Size: 4.8 MB - Complete Game

 Marathon.org 

 Home Page 

 Marathon II: Durandal 1.0 

Fresh from your triumph on the starship Marathon, you are seized by the rogue computer
Durandal to do his bidding in a distant part of the galaxy. Within the ruins of an ancient
civilization, you must seek the remnants of a lost clan and uncover their long-buried secrets. Battle
opponents ancient and terrible, with sophisticated weapons and devious strategies, all the while
struggling to escape the alien nightmare.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Bungie
 Modification Date : March 22, 1996
 Requirements : 68040 or better - Aleph One will run on Mac OS X

 Download 
File Size: 25.9 MB - Complete Game (use data files with Aleph One)

 Download 
File Size: 8.3 MB - Aleph One 20080721 - released July 21, 2008

 Aleph One 

 Aleph One 

 Marathon.org 

 Home Page 

 Marathon Infinity 1.5 

Marathon Infinity has the brand new scenario Blood Tides of Lh'owon, plus Bungie's own map
editor Forge, a content tool Anvil and the Marathon 2 Strategy Guide. For Marathon fans, Infinity
takes the game to a whole new level, evolving the story to its fullest and providing the tools to let
you extend it even further.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Bungie
 Modification Date : April 22, 1997
 Requirements : 68040 or better - Aleph One will run on Mac OS X

 Download 
File Size: 35.6 MB - Complete Game (use data files with Aleph One)

 Download 
File Size: 8.3 MB - Aleph One 20080721 - released July 21, 2008

 Aleph One 

 Aleph One 

 Marathon.org 

 Home Page 

 Medal of Honor: Allied Assault 1.14a 

Set during the most trying years of the war, 1942-1945, Medal of Honor
Allied Assault is a single and multiplayer game, powered by the Quake
III engine, that puts you in the thick of WWII as a Special Forces agent
sent to execute covert operations, search and rescue missions, and
commando raids. Prepare for your finest hour! Also included in this
explosive combo is Medal of Honor Allied Assault Spearhead. It
represents a unique addition to the Medal of Honor franchise. Players
will assume the role of Sgt. Jack Barnes as he endures the final months
of World War II, from Operation Overlord to the Battle of the Bulge and
culminating with the fall of Berlin.

 License : Update, purchase for $50
 Author/Publisher : Aspyr Media
 Modification Date : November 8, 2004
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.1 or higher and Mac OS 9.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 8.1 MB - 1.14a Allied Assault Updater and Spearhead 2.15b Updater

 Download 
File Size: 137 MB - Spearhead Demo

 Download 
File Size: 199 MB - Breakthrough Expansion Pack Demo - Requires Medal of Honor: Allied Assault

 Home Page 

 Nexuiz 2.4.2 

Welcome to the Nexuiz project website. Nexuiz is a 3d deathmatch game
project, created online by a team of developers called Alientrap. It is
available for download for Windows, Mac, and Linux (all the same
archive).The first version was released May 31st 2005, released entirely
GPL and free over the net, a first for a project of its kind. Since then
it has been downloaded over half a million times, and the game is still
being updated and developed, currently at version 2.2 and new releases
being developed. For more screens of the project and a video see the
media page on the navbar, and for more questions or infomation see info
or faq. If you would like to help out the project, and encourage more
development, you can donate to the team through paypal with the donation
link in the navbar.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Nexuiz Project
 Modification Date : May 11, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher, 1.5 GHz or faster

 Download 
File Size: 376 MB

 Home Page 

 Oni 1.0v1.36 

Bungie Software proudly presents Oni- a single-player blend of action and
adventure that combines the best elements of shooters and fighting games into a
near-future epic featuring anime-style action and characters.

Throughout breathtaking indoor and outdoor levels created by real- world
architects, Oni's third-person vantage point casts gamers in the role of Konoko,
a heroine with a vast arsenal of fighting moves- including kicks, punches,
throws and combos, as well as finishing moves. But she can also wield powerful
weapons- from machine guns to plasma cannons- as she maneuvers her way through
an increasingly dark storyline.

With the most fluid animation and control ever seen in a third-person title, Oni
promises the smooth feel of a shooter, the visual richness of broad third-person
perspective, and the frenetic combat of a fighting game, all combined for a
uniquely satisfying gaming experience.

 License : Demo, $30
 Author/Publisher : Bungie
 Modification Date : January 28, 2003
 Requirements : Mac OS 9.1 or higher and Mac OS X 10.1.3 or higher for the currently purchasable version

 Download 
File Size: 1.7 MB - 1.0v1.36

 Download 
File Size: 75.5 MB - Demo

 Download 
File Size: 18.2 MB - Level 2 - adds level 2 to the demo - released January 5, 2001

 Oni Central 

 Home Page 

 Penguins Arena 1.5.1 

It all begins when a penguin legend comes to life in the form of Sedna,
the ancient Penguin Goddess. Global warming, pollution... Penguin tribes
are endangered. Sedna utters them that there is room for but one tribe.
And so the purging begins.

Now it's your turn to join the snowball battles and drive the other
tribes into the sea. Penguins Arena is a thrilling and innovative First
Penguin Shooter with very short rounds and where the magic of
reincarnation, combined with the supernatural ability to return to the
game as a ghost, ensures that your character has every chance to change
your tribe's fate.

 License : Shareware, $20
 Author/Publisher : Frogames
 Modification Date : May 18, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 25.9 MB

 Home Page 

 Postal 2 1409.2 

Forget what you know about first person shooters. Walk a week in the
Postal Dude's shoes.

Freely explore full 3-D open-ended environments. Interact with over 100
unique NPC's including Gary Coleman, marching bands, dogs, cats and
elephants, protesters, policemen and civilians, with or without weapons.

Postal 2 is all about choice; experiment with everyone and everything.

And remember... it's only as violent as you are!

 License : Demo, $20
 Author/Publisher : Running With Scissors
 Modification Date : February 7, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2.8 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 13.6 MB - 1409.2 updater

 Home Page 

 Prey 1.0 

Tommy is a Cherokee garage mechanic, refuting his heritage and undecided about his next
step in life. His world comes to a halt when an extraterrestrial crisis forces him to
awaken spiritual powers from his long-forgotten birthright. Abducted with his people to a
menacing mothership orbiting Earth, he sets out to save himself, his girlfriend, and
eventually, the entire planet.

 License : Demo, $45
 Author/Publisher : Aspyr
 Modification Date : January 12, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher, G5 or Intel 1.8 GHz or faster, Intel integrated video chipsets are not supported (i.e. MacBook and MacMini)

 Download 
File Size: 454 MB

 Bittorrent Download 
File Size: 454 MB

 Home Page 

 Quake 1.1 

Exceeding even their own legendary high standards, id has created a unique masterwork
of mesmeric brilliance; Quake. Amazing game play, gorgeous graphics, the
greatest, slickest multi player scheme ever developed and amazing sound effects combine to
provide the ultimate, indispensable gaming experience.

 License : Demo, $29.95
 Author/Publisher : id/MacSoft
 Modification Date : March 18, 2006
 Requirements : PPC and Mac OS X

 Download 
File Size: 3.1 MB - OS X 1.1 Updater (use with the Full Version or the shareware data below)

 Download 
File Size: 8.4 MB - Shareware Quake Data

 Download 
File Size: 440 Kb - GLQuakeWorld 1.1b3

 Download 
File Size: 7.2 MB - Demo

 Download 
File Size: 455 Kb - 1.09 Updater - Patch for full version

 Download 
File Size: 452 Kb - 1.09 Updater - Patch for 3Dfx

 Download 
File Size: 488 Kb - 1.09 Updater - Patch for Rave

 Download 
File Size: 1394 Kb - QuakeWorld 2.3b1

 Parent Directory 

 GLQuake Home Page 

 Home Page 

 QuakeWorld.net 

 Quake II 1.1 

Shortly after landing on an alien surface, you learn that hundreds of
your men have been reduced to just a few. Now you must fight your way
through heavily fortified military installations, lower the city's
defenses and shut down the enemy's war machine. Only then will the fate
of humanity be known.

 License : Updater
 Author/Publisher : id/MacSoft
 Modification Date : May 8, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X

 Download 
File Size: 3.1 MB - 1.1 updater

 Download 
File Size: 1.8 MB - 1.0.8 updater

 Download 
File Size: 310 Kb - 1.0.3 updater

 Home Page 

 Quake 3: Arena 1.3.2c 

Prepare yourself for the best deathmatch experience in the universe.

 License : Demo (Now Open-Source)
 Author/Publisher : id/MacSoft
 Modification Date : May 8, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.1 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.3 MB - 1.3.2c - May 8, 2006

 Download 
File Size: 1.1 MB - 1.3.2 universal binary - February 10, 2006

 Download 
File Size: 29.4 MB - 1.3.2 updater - G4 or better - June 19, 2003

 Download 
File Size: 45.8 MB - Demo

 Quake Technology Downloads by ID 

 Home Page 

 Quake 4 1.4.2 

Immediately following a lone Marine's successful mission to bring down
the Strogg defenses and defeat their leader, the Makron (story and
events from QUAKE II), the Strogg are quickly regrouping and
constructing a new and more powerful Makron. You are Matthew Kane, a
member of the elite Rhino Squad, which is leading the next wave of
Earth's invasion.

 License : Purchase full version for $45
 Author/Publisher : Aspyr Media
 Modification Date : August 2, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher, G4/G5/Intel 1.67 GHz or higher

 Download 
File Size: 383 MB - 1.4.2 updater

 Download 
File Size: 536 MB - 1.2 Demo

 Home Page 

 Raven Shield 1.5.6 

Command an elite, multinational squad of special operatives against a
hidden terrorist foe. In Raven Shield, the third installment to the
wildly popular Rainbow Six series, RAINBOW races against time to stop
terror and unravel a mystery. In locations around the world, from London
to the Caribbean to Rio de Janeiro, lead team RAINBOW in a desperate
effort to battle a madman and foil his doomsday plot.

 License : Update, purchase for $50
 Author/Publisher : Aspyr Media
 Modification Date : November 19, 2004
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2.6 or later

 Download 
File Size: 13.1 MB - Patch version 1.0.2, Updates Raven Shield to version 1.5.6

 Home Page 

 Return to Castle Wolfenstein 1.4.1b 

You are B.J. Blazkowicz, a highly decorated Army Ranger recruited into
the Office of Secret Actions (OSA) tasked with escaping and then
returning to Castle Wolfenstein in an attempt to thwart Heinrich
Himmler's occult and genetic experiments. Himmler believes himself to be
a reincarnation of a 10th century dark prince, Henry the Fowler, also
known as Heinrich. Through genetic engineering and the harnessing of
occult powers, Himmler hopes to raise an unstoppable army to level the
Allies once and for all.

You must first escape from imprisonment in the castle to report the
strange creatures and happenings in and around Wolfenstein to the OSA.
Your mission takes a drastic turn as you learn the depth of Himmler's
plans and what you must do to defeat the evil he has unleashed.

This is what you have been trained for. Your surroundings will be
dangerous and hostile. The OSA is currently tracking activities believed
to be associated with Himmler in locations throughout Germany including;
villages overrun by the occult, hidden crypts, forests, air bases,
secret weapons facilities, and genetic labs, to name only the few we are
aware of. There are more, and you must find them.

Failure is not an option. If Himmler succeeds, the war is over for the
Allies... and the war is over for everyone.

 License : Demo, $30
 Author/Publisher : Aspyr Media
 Modification Date : January 16, 2003
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2.8 or higher and Mac OS 9.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 16.6 MB - 1.4.1b Updater

 Download 
File Size: 106 MB - Demo

 Home Page 

 Rubicon X 

Rubicon X is a free, cross platform, first person shooter that continues the story of
Bungie's Marathon trilogy. First released as Marathon:Rubicon in 2001, Rubicon X is a
complete overhaul of the original. It features all new high-resolution artwork, new and
updated maps, and enough surprises to feel like a whole new game.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Chris Lund/D. Scott Brown et al.
 Modification Date : August 7, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 124 MB

 Download 
File Size: 8.3 MB - Aleph One 20080721 - released July 21, 2008

 Home Page 

 Sauerbraten 20080620 

Sauerbraten (a.k.a. Cube 2) is a free multiplayer/singleplayer first
person shooter, built as a major redesign of the Cube FPS. Much like the
original Cube, the aim of this game is not necessarily to produce the
most features & eyecandy possible, but rather to allow map/geometry
editing to be done dynamically in-game, to create fun gameplay and an
elegant engine.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Sauerbraten Team
 Modification Date : June 20, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 306 MB

 Home Page 

 SiN 1.1.3 

When the CEO of SinTEK Industries begins injecting the streets with a
DNA-altering drug, it's time to reassess the laws of morality. When the same
twisted bio-chemist plans to overtake the world with her unholy army of
genetically-engineered mutants, it's time to rewrite the golden rule.

You are Colonel John R. Blade, head of the most prominent private protection
agency in Freeport. Now Elexis Sinclaire is waging her holy war against the
security industry... and you along with it. You've made a religion out of
fighting crime. Now you're going to make Elexis pay for her sins.

 License : Demo, $40
 Author/Publisher : United Developers
 Modification Date : August 27, 2002
 Requirements : Mac OS X and Mac OS 8.6 or later

 Download 
File Size: 3.8 MB - 1.1.3 updater

 Download 
File Size: 62,463 Kb - Demo

 Home Page 

 Soldier of Fortune II 1.0.3 

Reprise the role of John Mullins: Weapons Specialist, Anti-Terrorist
Mercenary, and "Military Consultant." A new and insidious threat has
arisen in the form of a bio-terrorist organization and their two-pronged
Gemini Virus. Now, you're off on a transcontinental mission to stop the
terrorists and destroy the virus before it's unleashed on humanity.

Full frontal assaults, stealth and subterfuge are your tactics.
Sub-machine guns, assault rifles and grenades are your tools. The world
is on the brink of disaster. Get ready for one of the most realistic
military shooter gameplay experiences ever.

 License : Free Update, $30
 Author/Publisher : MacPlay
 Modification Date : February 25, 2003
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.1.5 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 36.3 MB - 1.0.3 Updater

 Spider-Man 2 1.1 

Spider-Man 2 The Game follows the same storyline as the blockbuster
feature film, and places the gamer into the web-slinging, web-swinging
world of the Manhattan metropolis. Gamers will visit locations and
relive encounters taken directly from the film, from the Statue of
Liberty to the Daily Bugle offices. It was only two years ago that shy
Peter Parker discovered his super hero, alter ego Spider-Man. Now he's
in a fight for his life and will have to use his skills and wits to
survive a new, formidable foe. Spider-Man 2: The Game follows the
crime-fighter as he battles the villainous, multi-tentacled Doc Ock.

Features:
 # Battle enemies in scenes from the movie or challenge classic villains.
 # Fight criminals day and night with an easy-to-use point and click system
 # Armed with all of Spider-Man's abilities, prowl and protect the city
 # Web sling and swing across the streets and skyscrapers of Manhattan.
 # Featuring the voices of Tobey Maguire, Kirsten Dunst and Alfred Molina

 License : Demo, $40
 Author/Publisher : Aspyr Media
 Modification Date : January 31, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2.8 or higher, 700MHz or faster

 Download 
File Size: 175.0 MB - Demo 1.0

 Download 
File Size: 8.4 MB - 1.1 Updater

 Home Page 

 Star Trek Voyager: Elite Force 1.2.1 

Star Trek: Voyager - Elite Force is the first game based on the Star Trek
Voyager universe. One blast from destruction, the U.S.S. Voyager is mysteriously
transported into a hull space infested with danger. As a member of the Elite
Force Hazard Team, you must deal with situations beyond the normal call of duty,
defending against a host of never-before-seen scavenging aliens, then infiltrate
a Borg cube and derelict vessels to eradicate your deadly foes, in 40
ultra-intense single-player combat missions and 16 multiplayer arenas. No one
said being a hero was easy. Star Trek: Voyager - Elite Force is the ultimate in
sci-fi 3-D first-person shooter action, powered by renowned Quake III Arena(TM)
engine. Set phasers to frag..

 License : Demo, $50
 Author/Publisher : Aspyr
 Modification Date : February 12, 2002
 Requirements : G3 266 mhz processor or higher, Mac OS 8.6 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 13.8 MB - 1.2 updater

 Download 
File Size: 641 Kb - 1.2.1 updater for OS X

 Star Wars: Battlefront 1.2 Rev A 

Star Wars Battlefront is an action/shooter game that gives fans and
gamers the opportunity to re-live and participate in all of the classic
Star Wars battles like never before. Players can select one of a number
of different soldier types, jump into any vehicle, man any turret on the
battlefront and conquer the galaxy planet-by-planet.

 License : Free Update, $40
 Author/Publisher : Aspyr
 Modification Date : September 13, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.6 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 3.0 MB

 Home Page 

 Stubbs the Zombie 1.0 

From the Executive Producer of Halo, comes Stubbs the Zombie in Rebel
Without a Pulse. You play as Stubbs, an undead antihero who takes on a
futuristic city using nothing but his own carcass and the weapons of his
possessed enemies. This third-person action game uses the Halo engine
and integrates tongue-in-cheek humor and a strong storyline with
innovative combat.

 License : Demo, $29
 Author/Publisher : Aspyr Media
 Modification Date : January 5, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher, 1.5 GHz or faster

 Download 
File Size: 223 MB

 Home Page 

 Tomb Raider Anniversary 1.0 

Celebrate and commemorate ten years of Tomb Raider and Lara Croft with
Tomb Raider: Anniversary, a new action adventure inspired by the
original Tomb Raider video game, one of the greatest action adventure
games of all time.

 License : Demo, $50
 Author/Publisher : Feral Interactive
 Modification Date : February 14, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher, 1.83 GHz or faster, Intel only

 Download 
File Size: 273 MB

 Home Page 

 Tomb Raider: Chronicles 1.0.2 

It is a cold, dark, rainy day. With the memorial service for Lara Croft
over, her old friends retire to the Croft Mansion....

Lara's friends gather to reminisce about her little known past exploits.
Each memory provides a new adventure, taking you from a high -tech city,
to the ruins of Rome, to a German U-Boat and more. Learn how Lara
attained the four unique items at the Croft Estate.

Utilize new nimble moves, like tightrope walking, parallel bar swinging
and a hand-to-hand stealth attack. New weapons, including a grappling
hook gun, sniper rifle, and chloroform, have been added to Lara's
arsenal.

An enhanced inventory system provides greater combinations of a variety
of weapons and items.

Meanwhile, hundreds of miles away, Werner Von Croy co-ordintes the
frantic dig-searching for answers buried deep beneath the Egyptian
desert...

 License : Update
 Author/Publisher : Aspyr Media
 Modification Date : September 10, 2002
 Requirements : Mac OS X and Mac OS 8.6 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.4 MB - 1.0.2 Updater

 Home Page 

 Unreal Tournament X 1.0pr3 

Made specifically for online play. The stakes are high. On the one hand, fame, fortune,
glory; on the other hand, death. Prove your skill in the
arenas of the future, leading your team of computer-contolled "bots" to victory in the Grand
Tournament, or compete with the best of the best via LAN or the Internet in seat-of-your-pants battles. 
While Unreal Tournament offers the finest in classic "Deathmatch" play, right out of the box you can
compete in Team Deathmatch or Capture the Flag. Control strategic points on the map to rack up your
score in Domination, or test your skills in Assault, as one team defends its base from the other.

 License : Update
 Author/Publisher : Westlake Interactive/MacSoft
 Modification Date : April 4, 2002
 Requirements : Mac OS X, Unreal Tournament 436

 Download 
File Size: 3.4 MB - 436 Update, released November 7, 2000

 Download 
File Size: 1.1 MB - 1.0pr3 Update - Make sure the classic version is updated with the 436 update above first

 Unreal Tournament 2003 2225.3 

Join hundreds of thousands of gamers online or play alone against
super-intelligent bots. Set up your own LAN games, or play on hundreds
of servers on the Internet against challengers using Macs, Wintel PCs,
or Unix.

Unreal Tournament 2003 uses the very latest Unreal Engine technology -
where graphics, sound and gameplay are taken beyond the bleeding edge.
Unreal Tournament 2003 is a lightning-fast, no-holds-barred sport of the
future, where warriors face off like the Gladiators of ancient Rome to
determine the ultimate combatant. Super human reflexes, awesome weapons
and the skill to use them effectively are what separate the good from
the bad, the living from the dead, the victor from vanquished.

 License : Demo, $50
 Author/Publisher : MacSoft
 Modification Date : June 27, 2004
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2.6 or higher and a 700MHz G4 or faster 

 Download 
File Size: 7.1 MB - 2225.3 Updater

 Download 
File Size: 134.4 MB - Demo

 Home Page 

 Unreal Tournament 2004 3369.2 

The greatest gladiator sport ever created is redefined for 2004. Now,
experience more than double the content of the earlier model with
massive additions like land, air, and space vehicles, an arsenal of new
weaponry (including mines, rocket-propelled grenades and stationary gun
turrets), two new game modes, more than 95 arenas and battlefields, and
the return of the mighty Skaarj race.

Unreal Tournament 2004 is a multiplayer first-person shooter that
combines gladiatorial combat with cutting-edge technology. Ten game
modes - both team-based and "every man for himself" -- provide action
gamers with palm-sweating challenges through unbelievably detailed
indoor arenas and vast outdoor environments. As the ultimate
techno-gladiator of the future, you take your fate into your own hands,
battling up to 32 Mac, Windows, and Linux players online in
action-packed, frag-filled arenas.

 License : Demo, $50
 Author/Publisher : MacSoft
 Modification Date : February 3, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2.8 or higher and a 933MHz G4 or faster 

 Download 
File Size: 199.0 MB - 3369.2 Updater

 Download 
File Size: 268 MB - Demo

 Home Page 

 Wolfenstein: Enemy Territory 2.60d 

Wolfenstein: Enemy Territory (abbreviated as WOLF:ET, WET, and usually
among gamers, just ET) is a free first-person shooter (FPS) computer
game, and a standalone sequel to Return to Castle Wolfenstein, created
by Splash Damage.

Enemy Territory was originally planned to be released as a commercial
expansion pack to the popular FPS Return to Castle Wolfenstein. However,
due to problems with the single-player aspect, the multiplayer portion
was released on May 29, 2003 as a free standalone game. In early 2004
the source code for the game logic (not the game engine) was released to
the benefit of its modding community.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Splash Damage/Activision
 Modification Date : January 25, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher - you'll also need an updated version of Punkbuster 

 Download 
File Size: 257 MB - version 2.60d - January 25, 2007
 Wolfenstein: Enemy Territory for OSX 10.4 and up (universal binary)
 Drag and Drop the Wolfenstein ET folder to your Applications folder
 Run the Punkbuster package to install punkbuster
 -> most servers require that you have punkbuster installed to connect
 -> the PunkBuster installer expects that you have copied Wolfenstein ET to /Applications/Wolfenstein ET. It will create an /Applications/Wolfenstein ET/pb/ folder.
 Notes:
 - No mods are included in this release. Most servers running mods are setup with the older non-universal Mac binaries. Until they upgrade, it's likely you will crash if you try to connect to them.
 - If the older non-universal Mac binary was installed on your machine, you should remove the Library/Application Support/Wolfenstein ET folder before running the new version.

 Download 
File Size: 258 MB - version 2.60-2 - March 21, 2005

 Home Page 

 XIII 1.0.1 

An immersive comic-strip style action game that is redefining the FPS
genre. The leader of the free world has been assassinated and you are
the prime suspect.

You wake up on a desolate strip of a New England beach. The near-fatal
impact of a bullet has left your head pounding and your memory erased.
What's more, the number "XIII" has been mysteriously tattooed on your
chest, while your pocket holds a key to a New York City bank box. Head
swimming in amnesia, you struggle to your feet only to encounter more
assailants intent on finishing the job. To your shock, you handle the
hitmen with the killing skills of a professional - before heading to the
bank in search of any shred of information about your lost identity and
your involvement in the president's murder.

What lies ahead is a deadly quest not only into your shadowy past, but
also into America's darkest corridors of power.

 License : Demo, $55
 Author/Publisher : Feral Interactive
 Modification Date : June 25, 2004
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2.3 or higher G4 1GHz or faster

 Download 
File Size: 4.0 MB - 1.0.1 Patch

 Zonic 

 Home Page 

 Denotes Mac OS X Intel Native 
 Denotes Mac OS X Intel & PPC Native 
 Denotes Mac OS X PPC Native 
 Denotes Mac OS 8/9 PPC Native 
 Denotes Mac OS 680x0 Native 
 Denotes Non-OS Specific Code 

 Back to the Main Page of Pure Mac