Pure Mac: Web Auctions 

 Web Auctions 

 AAuction 
 A.I.D 

 Auction Action Tracker 
 Auctioneer Pro 

 Auction Monitor 
 My Auction 

 Pre-Lister 
 re:Sale 

 Amazon.com Auctions 
 AuctionMac.com 
 eBay 
 Haggle Online 
 Yahoo! Auctions 

 AAuction 1.06f 

A shareware program that takes full advantage of eBay's "Mister Lister" batch upload system.

 License : Shareware, $10
 Author/Publisher : baSW
 Modification Date : January 28, 2001
 Requirements : 680x0 or PPC

 Direct Download 
 File Size: 1856 Kb

 Home Page 

 A.I.D 4.1.1 

A.I.D (formerly BidWatch) is a program that will help you control and monitor all your eBay transactions. You'll never
have to wonder if you sent money to someone, or when you sent an item to someone. Bid Watch keeps track of it all.

 License : Shareware, $29.95
 Author/Publisher : Epigroove
 Modification Date : October 15, 2001
 Requirements : 680x0 or PPC

 Direct Download 
 File Size: 4791 Kb

 Home Page 

 Auction Action Tracker 2.8.5 

Auction Action Tracker is a utility to quickly check the status of eBay auctions. By entering item
numbers, you add items to a list. You can also use the Auto Load option to effortlessly add your
current auctions, as well as current auctions you have bid on, to the list. Opening an item in this list
opens another window where the current auction statistics are shown. From this window you can
reload the contents once, or use the Continuously Reload option to continuously update the window.
The Continuously Reload option is very handy during the last few minutes of an auction, when most
bids seem to occur. Auction Action Tracker is a great utility for eBay sellers and bidders.

 License : Shareware, $5
 Author/Publisher : Travis J. Hicks
 Modification Date : February 24, 2001
 Requirements : 680x0 or PPC

 Direct Download 
 File Size: 641 Kb

 Home Page 

 Auctioneer Pro 1.0 

Auctioneer Pro is a software package that helps
you become more productive and efficient in
online auctions. 
It allows you to search for and track an unlimited
number of online auctions from the top three sites:
Amazon, eBay, and Yahoo!. 

 License : Demo, $24.99
 Author/Publisher : MBM Designs
 Modification Date : October 14, 1999
 Requirements : PPC

 Direct Download 
 File Size: 1446 Kb

 Home Page 

 Auction Monitor 1.2 

Auction Monitor is a utility for sellers using the eBay online auction service which
provides a unique new way to track bidding activity. Auction Monitor displays a list of
all open auctions along with each item's current bid, most recent change, and total
change for the current date, as well as grand totals for each field and some other
interesting statistics. It can automatically update the information at specified intervals
and can mark and provide audible notifications for new bids, bids placed by users with
negative feedback ratings, and/or bids placed by specified users. Auction Monitor also
provides quick access to web pages frequently needed by sellers such as item
information, bidder information and bidder feedback comments. Think of it as a stock
ticker for your auctions. 

 License : Shareware, $14.95
 Author/Publisher : Timothy M. Brown
 Modification Date : March 2, 2001
 Requirements : 680x0 or PPC

 Direct Download 
 File Size: 839 Kb

 Home Page 

 My Auction 1.7.2 

My Auction is a database designed to keep track of items being sold on the eBay
web site. If you've been selling items for any length of time, you know that
being organized is key to staying on top of your auctions. Especially if you have
multiple auctions ongoing at the same time. Below are details of how this program
can help you stay organized, with minimum effort.

 License : Demo, $25
 Author/Publisher : Tomchak Database Solutions
 Modification Date : January 1, 2001
 Requirements : PPC, System 7.1 or higher

 Direct Download 
 File Size: 8903 Kb

 Home Page 

 Pre-Lister 3.7.4 

Pre-Lister is an auction listing utility for use with the eBay auction service which allows you
to create your listings offline, at your convenience. Listings created with Pre-Lister are saved as
completed web forms (HTML files) which can be opened with your browser and submitted
whenever you are ready to post your auctions.

 License : Demo, $35
 Author/Publisher : Timothy M. Brown
 Modification Date : August 4, 2001
 Requirements : PPC, Mac OS 8 or higher

 Direct Download 
 File Size: 929 Kb

 Home Page 

 re:Sale 4.3.1 

re:Sale is a program designed to help you make the most out of your sales and purchases at Online
Auction web sites like eBay and Amazon.com. 

re:Sale takes the grind out of keeping track of all aspects of your auction transactions. re:Sale, at the click
of a mouse, sends emails, records payments and shipments, sends user feedback and checks your
auctions. 

As a seller or a buyer, you'll never need to go through the drudgery of figuring out what to send where, or
the hours of sending emails, submitting feedback and tracking shipments that accompany each item. 

This one application will manage keeping an eye on all of your transactions, as a well as taking care of all
of your email and internet follow through, with an amazingly minimal amount of time and effort.

 License : Shareware, $35
 Author/Publisher : Geoffrey S. Mitchell
 Modification Date : September 4, 2000
 Requirements : 680x0 or PPC

 Direct Download 
 File Size: 1954 Kb

 Home Page 

 Back to the main page of Pure Mac