Pure Mac: Biology - Software For Macintosh        Biology              AmplifX  Apple/Genentech BLAST  BioAssistant  BiokularPrimer  EcoBeaker      Emboss  embossRunner  EnzymeX  Evolution  4Peaks  Gene Construcktion Kit      Gene Inspector  iMol  Life  LifeLab  MacClade  MacVector      Mesquite  ODLog  Oligo  Prism  Sente  TaxDaddy       BioAssistant 1.7.2  BioAssistant was written to assist PCR Chemists design DNA Probes. WithBioAssistant you can do all the things you could do with ProbeAssistant, such as determine probe Melting Points (Tm), MolecularWeights, Hybridization information and other useful tidbits, but with amuch cleaner and easy to use interface. It also extends on ProbeAssistant feature set by introducing several useful tools, such as aMaster Mix Calculator.   License : Shareware, $20 Author/Publisher : Chaotic Software Modification Date : October 29, 2003 Requirements : Mac OS X and Mac OS 9 or higher  Direct Download  File Size: 512 Kb  Home Page   EcoBeaker 1.1  EcoBeaker is the premier program for teaching ecology, conservation biology, and now evolutionarybiology at the university level. EcoBeaker lets students see population and community level dynamicson screen while performing the kinds of experiments done by practicing ecologists.   License : Demo, $600 for 25 computers Author/Publisher : Eli Meir/BeakerWare Modification Date : April 9, 2002 Requirements : Mac OS X and Mac OS 9.1 or higher  Direct Download  File Size: 4.9 MB  Home Page   Gene Construcktion Kit 2.5  The Gene Construction Kit allows graphic manipulation of DNA sequences and sophisticated plasmiddrawing capabilities. The Gene Construction Kit represents a breakthrough in interface design that allows graphic manipulation of DNA sequences inaddition to providing sophisticated drawing capabilities. It is ideal for designing and managing complex construction projects orassembling DNA sequences for use in DNA analysis programs such as the DNA Inspector. It readily generates high qualityblack and white or color illustrations for slides, posters, or papers.   License : Demo Author/Publisher : Textco, Inc. Modification Date : June 21, 2001 Requirements : Mac OS X and Mac OS 9 or higher  Direct Download  File Size: 4.8 MB  Direct Download - Manual  Home Page   Gene Inspector 1.6  The Gene Inspector can perform many sophisticated sequence analyses, but this new software is much more than just anothersequence analysis product. Imagine having the ability to define an entire suite of analyses to be performed each time you have anew sequence, and to design custom style sheets which specify exactly how your output will look for each analysis. Becauseyou can predefine and store analysis parameters for any analysis to fit your needs, anyone in the lab will be able to obtainmeaningful and consistent results, whether they are a novice just entering the lab, or an experienced researcher familiar withthe analysis routines. The combination of notebook with navigation and drawing tools and sophisticated analyses provides theability to annotate experimental results and analyses in a single location, rather than keeping your sequence analyses separate fromyou lab notes.   License : Demo Author/Publisher : July 2, 2004 Requirements : Mac OS X and Mac OS 9 or higher  Direct Download  File Size: 5.6 MB  Direct Download  File Size: 5573 Kb  Direct Download - Manual  Home Page   Life 4.0  This is a small application which displays "Life" a simulation of cells which live & die by three simple rules. Life was created by JohnConway and popularized in Scientific American's Mathematical Recreations column. A classic in the computer world.   License : Freeware Author/Publisher : Soporific Software Modification Date : July 26, 2003 Requirements : Mac OS X and Mac OS 9  Direct Download  File Size: 120 Kb  Home Page   TaxDaddy 0.9.1  TaxDaddy is intended as an easy to use database for keeping taxonomic informationat your fingertips. The program is configured as a flat-file database with manyuser defined fields for taxonomic names, ranges, distributions, synonymies,descriptions, you name it. If you have enough disk space, you can evenincorporate scanned images or other pictures into your data records. Depending onyour configuration and the data you put into the program, TaxDaddy can do complexsearches, such as answering the question: how many brachiopod genera (and theirsynonyms) belonging to family Choenitidae are known from the Devonian of China? Something difficult for a 3 x 5 card to do. Besides keeping track of your taxonomic data, TaxDaddy can also calculate variousdiversity metrics. The program automatically calculates taxonomic diversity,originations, and extinctions as well as their proportions and standard errors.It also calculates and plots survivorship curves.   License : Freeware Author/Publisher : Christopher A. McRoberts Modification Date : November 20, 1995 Requirements : 680x0 or PPC - Hypercard Player  Direct Download  File Size: 750 Kb  Parent Directory   Back to the main page of Pure Mac