Pure Mac: Business - Software for Macintosh 

 Business 

 Web 

 Pure-Mac.com 

 Accounting 
 Groupware 
 Point of Sale/ Inventory 
 Project Managers 
 Time/Expense Tracking 

 Accounts 
 Big Business 
 Connected 
 Corona 
 MoneyWorks 
 MultiLedger 
 MYOB 
 Payroll 
 QuickBooks 
 TinyBooks 

 BusySync 
 Contactizer 
 CommuniGate 
 Daylite 
 FirstClass 
 GroupCal 
 Lotus Notes 
 Now Up-to-Date & Contact 
 SOHO Organizer 

 Checkout 
 ezBusiness 
 Intelliscanner 
 LightSpeed 

 ConceptDraw Project 
 Daylite 
 FastTrack 
 GanttPV 
 iTaskX 
 Merlin 
 OmniPlan 
 PowerCard 
 Project X 
 Studiometry 
 xTime Project 

 Billable 
 Billings 
 iBiz 
 Invoice 
 iRatchet 
 MacBusiness 
 MileageSaver 
 OfficeTime 
 Project Calculator 
 ReceiptWallet 
 Stone Hill Invoicer 
 TaskTime 
 TimeCache 
 TimeEqualsMoney 
 TimeLog 
 TimeNet 
 TimeSlice 
 Time Tracker 
 WorkTimer 

 Pure Mac 
 Games 

 Action 
 Arcade 
 Board 
 Card 
 Emulators 
 Flight Sims 
 Frivolous 
 Game Utilities 
 MMOG 
 Puzzle 
 RPG 
 Sports & Racing 
 Strategy 
 Word 

 Home 

 Astronomy 
 Calculators & Math 
 Charts & Graphs 
 Collections 
 Health 
 Hobbies & Crafts 
 Kid Stuff 
 Language 
 Parental Control 
 Recipes 
 Science 
 Teaching Aids 
 Typing 
 Weather 

 Internet 

 Collaboration 
 Distributed Computing 
 Download Managers 
 Email 
 FTP 
 Internet Utilities 
 iPhone 
 IRC & IM 
 Online Games 
 Peer-to-Peer 
 Radio 
 Remote Access 
 Usenet 
 Video Conferencing 
 VoIP 

 Multimedia 

 Audio 
 CAD 
 Comics 
 DTP 
 eBook 
 Font Utilities 
 Graphics 
 iTunes & MP3 
 Media Center 
 Music 
 Photoshop Plug-ins 
 Presentation 
 3D & Animation 
 Screen Capture 
 Video 

 System 

 Alternative OS 
 Classic OS Updates 
 Command Line 
 Contextual Menus 
 Cross-Platform 
 CSMs 
 Drivers 
 Face-Lift 
 Launchers 
 Olden 
 Screen Savers 
 Security 
 System Enhancements 
 Virus 
 Widgets 
 X11 

 Utilities 

 Backup 
 Business 
 Compression 
 Database 
 Diagnostics 
 Disk & File 
 Finance 
 Handhelds 
 Network 
 PIMs 
 Programming 
 Spreadsheets 
 Stocks 
 Telephony 
 Text Editors 
 Time 

 WWW 

 Auctions 
 Browsers 
 Browser Add-ons 
 The Cloud & SSBs 
 HTML Editors 
 Page Rippers 
 RSS & Podcasting 
 Site Tweaking 
 Social Networking 
 Web Cams 
 Web Graphics 
 Web Server 

 Extension Key 
 Pure Picks 
 Software Index 

 Accounts 1.9.5 

Accounts is an intuitive accounting application that gives you the power
to manage your small business and personal finances. Accounts lets you
create accounts, record transactions, reconcile your bank and credit
card accounts, create financial reports and produce sales invoices and
purchase orders that use information from your OS X Address Book. Your
financial information is clearly displayed in a single window that lets
you stay on top of your finances at a glance.

 License : Shareware, $35
 Author/Publisher : Nano Software
 Modification Date : December 9, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 3.5 MB

 Home Page 

 Big Business 6.0.7 

Big Business combines sales automation, a marketing database, contact
management, inventory tracking, and full-featured accounting to run your
entire company. While you concentrate on serving your customers and
increasing sales, Big Business works behind the scenes to manage sales
quotes, mailing lists, stock levels, shipments, payments, receivables,
and more. Designed especially for businesses that buy or sell products,
Big Business has 90 company templates for retail, wholesale,
distribution, and more. And, with its multi-user, client/server version
or Web Server add-on, Big Business grows with your company to help you
make it big!

 License : Demo, $595 per User
 Author/Publisher : Big Business, Inc.
 Modification Date : January 22, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 21.2 MB - Client version 6.0.7

 Download 
File Size: 37.1 MB - Server 6.0.7

 Home Page 

 Billable 1.2.4 

Billable is an application for Mac OS X that helps you keep track of the billable services
you perform for a client and then lets you create and manage invoices based on those
services.

 License : Shareware, $25
 Author/Publisher : Clickable Bliss
 Modification Date : January 21, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 2.2 MB

 Home Page 

 Billings 3.0.4 

As a busy Mac professional, you can count on the power and simplicity of Billings 2 to
streamline your quoting, time tracking, and invoicing. Get up and running in less than
five minutes thanks to an intuitive setup assistant and simple, real-world workflow.
Conveniently track time from any application using the menubar timer or instant hot keys.
Impress your clients with polished, professional, and fully customizable estimates and
invoices.

 License : Shareware, $59
 Author/Publisher : Marketcircle Inc.
 Modification Date : March 25, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 29.9 MB

 Home Page 

 BusySync 2.1.8 

BusySync allows multiple users to share and edit iCal calendars on a
local area network or over the internet without the need for a dedicated
server.

 License : Shareware, $20
 Author/Publisher : BusyMac, LLC
 Modification Date : October 20, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 2.3 MB

 Home Page 

 Communigate 5.2.13 

Based on the open standards, the product provides an integrated platform
for "store-and-forward" (E-mail, Calendaring) and Real-Time (VoIP,
Video, Instant Messaging, White Boards) communications.

The Internet messaging server application implementing: Multi-domain
support with and without IP multihoming, multi-mailbox accounts and
shared mailboxes, Internet mail exchange service using the ESMTP
protocol, anti-spam mechanisms, and much more.

 License : Demo, $500
 Author/Publisher : Stalker Software
 Modification Date : March 9, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.0 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 19.3 MB

 Download 
File Size: 19.3 MB

 Home Page 

 ConceptDraw Project 5.0 

Increase your overall business performance through efficient planning
and management of multiple projects. ConceptDraw Project offers a
comprehensive managerial toolset for you to effectively start, track and
report projects.

 License : Demo, $199
 Author/Publisher : Computer Systems Odessa
 Modification Date : July 3, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4.10 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 206 MB - Part of ConceptDraw Office

 Home Page 

 Connected 5.4 

Connected is a powerful mid-range accounting solution designed for both
Macintosh and Windows operating systems. Connected consists of three
modules that are fully integrated: Core Accounting, Inventory Control,
and Job Costing.

 License : Demo, $695
 Author/Publisher : Accountek
 Modification Date : November 5, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 85.0 MB

 Home Page 

 Corona 3.1 

Corona provides invoicing, purchasing, payroll and general form entry
with its already familiar check register, account chart features and
full range of accounting reports.

Corona makes use of popup selectors for choosing names and accounts,
expandable views with adjustable font size, and online help.

Invoices and Purchases can be used for recording time and materials. An
integrated address index includes options for creating letters and
preaddressed email. Custom logos may be added to invoices and letters.

Full-featured payroll accounting stores tax rates, employee data, and
payroll transactions. Corona produces reports for employees, monthly
posting entries, payroll tax quarterlies, and payroll advices to
accompany employee paychecks.

 License : Shareware, $65
 Author/Publisher : R Charles Flickinger
 Modification Date : February 17, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 17.8 MB

 Home Page 

 Checkout 2.3.2 

Checkout is the powerful, yet easy to use point of sale system for the
rest of us. Together with a Mac and the right peripherals, Checkout
offers a complete solution for your retail business at an affordable
price.

 License : Demo, $399
 Author/Publisher : madebysofa
 Modification Date : January 30, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4.8 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 31.9 MB

 Home Page 

 Contactizer 3.7.2 

 Organize & access all contact activities in a single centralized view.
 Real-time sharing of all your calendar, contacts and tasks with colleagues in only one mouse click.
 Complete view of all your communications and immediate access.
 Prioritize and organize your work with unlimited color-coded categories.
 Customize mouse actions and instant editing of any element.

 License : Demo, Pro $119 - Express $59
 Author/Publisher : Objective Decision
 Modification Date : April 1, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 33.1 MB - Contactizer Pro 3.7.2

 Download 
File Size: 31.0 MB - Contactizer Express 3.7.2

 Home Page 

 Daylite 3.9.1 

Designed for the unique needs of Mac-based businesses of 1-50 people,
Daylite 3 is a new generation of productivity management software.
Daylite 3's time-saving features include shared calendars, seamless
integration with Apple Mail, project and activity delegation, multiple
pipeline views, a built-in report writer, sophisticated offline
capabilities, and a clean, easy-to-use interface.

 License : Demo, $149
 Author/Publisher : Marketcircle
 Modification Date : April 8, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4.11 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 54.1 MB

 Home Page 

 ezBusiness 1.5 

ezBusiness is an easy to use point of sales, inventory, and sales
management software for small businesses. It features a full featured
search engine and a shopping cart for processing sales. It is built to
work with a keyboard interface barcode reader.

 License : Shareware, $70
 Author/Publisher : Mien Software
 Modification Date : July 22, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.1 or highe

 Download 
File Size: 2.2 MB

 Home Page 

 FastTrack Schedule 9.2.2 

FastTrack Schedule 9 makes it easy to organize, track, and manage all
your project details. New consolidation and schedule-building tools help
you plan more efficiently, keeping your projects on track and within
budget. FastTrack Schedule delivers descriptive project snapshots that
are sure to make an impact with clients and colleagues.

 License : Demo, $349
 Author/Publisher : AEC Software
 Modification Date : June 12, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 30.6 MB

 Home Page 

 FirstClass Client 9.124 

FirstClass is a cost-effective, highly scalable, feature-rich messaging and communications
solution for schools and school districts, learning organizations and businesses. At the
foundation of our award-winning FirstClass Communications Platform is our Collaborative
Groupware, which provides our users with the ability to effectively communicate and share
valuable resources and information via email, conferencing, directories, individual and
shared calendars and online chats. FirstClass has been used by thousands of organizations
to create powerful online electronic communities that enable individuals and groups of
people to work more effectively.

 License : Freeware Client - Server $various pricing schemes
 Author/Publisher : Open Text Corporation
 Modification Date : March 19, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2.8 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 20.1 MB - version 9.124

 Download 
File Size: 4.8 Kb - version 8.102

 Downloads 

 Home Page 

 GanttPV 0.11 

GanttPV is named for a report that has become almost synonymous with
project management, the gantt chart. Most people have used or at least
seen them. GanttPV can be used to create gantt charts and export them as
web pages. But GanttPV doesn't stop there. Management of a particular
project may require the tracking of many different kinds of information.
GanttPV can be extended to fill a variety of project management needs.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Brian Christensen
 Modification Date : March 26, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 16.8 MB

 Home Page 

 GroupCal 3.94 

Feel like you are living on an island when it comes to calendaring on OS X in a company
running Exchange?

Introducing Groupcal. Now you can take full advantage of the all the group calendaring
features of Exchange directly from Apple iCal. Finally, view and share your calendar
schedules quickly, easily, and transparently with your coworkers running Outlook. All with
no need to install additional software on your Exchange server.

Groupcal for your calendars - Apple Mail for your Exchanged-based email ... the more
"pure" OS X approach!

 License : Shareware, $55
 Author/Publisher : Snerdware
 Modification Date : October 18, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 4.0 MB

 Home Page 

 iBiz 3.1.14 

iBiz is an easy to use time-billing and invoicing application. It
integrates with iCal and Address Book, offers tax support, easily
generates custom invoices and does all data saving behind the scenes for
you. This is the most intuitive time-billing application out there.
Essential for anyone self employed.

 License : Demo, $50
 Author/Publisher : IGG Software, LLC
 Modification Date : November 25, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 6.6 MB

 Home Page 

 Intelliscanner 

Adding barcodes to your business can be this easy. Our flagship business
scanning system is ready to bring barcode automation with award-winning
IntelliScanner barcode technology and software -- just plug it into any
USB port and start scanning. Use included Inventory, Media Collector,
and xTagger tools for an instant tracking solution for any type of item
in your business, effortlessly scan barcodes into any application with
advanced keyboard emulation, or extend your solution with a variety of
useful software add-ons and asset tags.

IntelliScanner Pro includes IntelliScanner Business Essentials -- three
commercial applications that make inventory management, media tracking,
and asset tag creation fast, easy, and hassle free.
 Inventory - Barcode-enabled inventory control that's easy to use
 Collection - Automatically organize books, DVDs, CDs, and games
 xTagger - The easy way to build customized asset tags on your Mac or PC

 License : Demo, $299
 Author/Publisher : IntelliScanner Corporation
 Modification Date : December 31, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 73.4 MB

 Home Page 

 Invoice 3.0.8 

Invoice is an invoice application with many features. The goal was to
make a Mac friendly application with all required features for mac
users.

 License : Shareware, $105
 Author/Publisher : KediSoft
 Modification Date : November 28, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4.6 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 11.0 MB

 Home Page 

 iRatchet 1.87 

iRatchet is an Invoicing and Billing application written
in Objective-C/Cocoa. iRatchet provides the features and functionality
common to billing and invoicing apps, (tracking hourly and fixed
entries, multiple clients/projects, timers, pdf output, emailing of
invoices, etc.), it excells in workflow, mileage tracking, web
integration and ease-of-use.

 License : Shareware, $45
 Author/Publisher : Pretty Good Software
 Modification Date : March 26, 2000
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 8.6 MB

 Home Page 

 iTaskX 2.5 

TaskX has always provided the support you need for professional project
management. Our latest version is even more powerful without sacrificing
the simple and intuitive interface that helped make iTaskX such a
success. Whether your job calls for managing large construction
projects, sophisticated media activities or detailed time schedules,
iTaskX 2 adapts to your needs. It can give you the complete story behind
your tasks, dates and costs, or the big picture status on the overall
project if that's what you need. iTaskX 2 helps you organize, monitor
and administer your tasks so you can spend more time managing your
projects and less time learning to use your project management software.

 License : Demo, $100
 Author/Publisher : Techno Grafik
 Modification Date : November 5, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 5.8 MB

 Home Page 

 LightSpeed 2.8.2 

LightSpeed is a ground-breaking, next-generation Point of Sale system
for Mac that offers retail stores comprehensive and easy-to-use retail
tools in an iTunes-like Browser, and an innovative floating POS
interface designed for high-speed, error-free checkout. A
tightly-integrated Web Store module (sold separately) allows stores to
take their product catalog online and download orders right back into
LightSpeed. All of this functionality is built on a powerful, multi-user
database that will scale to satisfy the needs of any growing retail
business.

 License : Demo, $749
 Author/Publisher : Xsilva Systems
 Modification Date : April 9, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 132 MB

 Home Page 

 Lotus Notes 8.5 

IBM Lotus&reg; Notes&reg;, the premier integrated client option for IBM Lotus
Domino&reg; server, delivers e-mail, calendar and scheduling capabilities,
integrated instant messaging, personal information management (PIM)
tools, discussion forums, teamrooms and reference databases with basic
workflow - along with a powerful desktop platform for collaborative
applications.

Lotus Notes is available in two offerings: Lotus Notes for Messaging
(access to messaging functions) and Lotus Notes for Collaboration (both
messaging and applications). An integral part of of the IBM&reg; Workplace
family, Lotus Notes offers your employees business-critical
collaboration tools designed to help you increase organizational
productivity and responsiveness.

 License : Demo, $112 - with Collaboration $155
 Author/Publisher : IBM
 Modification Date : January 13, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.5.5 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 292 MB

 Home Page 

 MacBusiness 4.5.1 

Job & time tracker for freelancers, contractors, small biz. Features
accounts, invoices, reports, currency conversion, iCal and address book
support, basic project planning and more.

 License : Shareware, $25
 Author/Publisher : Bright Light Software
 Modification Date : September 23, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 5.4 MB

 Home Page 

 Merlin 2.6.3 

Merlin is professional-grade project management application software
designed specifically for the Macintosh operating system. Written using
the latest Apple technology for Mac OS X, Merlin's rich feature set and
intuitive tools allow you to focus on your work, not the software.

Merlin gives you all the tools to complete any project on time and
within budget. It's intuitive, easy to use and offers a rich feature set
to let you plan, control, then celebrate your successes!

 License : Demo, $225
 Author/Publisher : ProjectWizards
 Modification Date : December 2, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 38.9 MB

 Home Page 

 MileageSaver 3.0 

MileageSaver is a simple application that helps keep track of your
business miles for income tax day and income tax record keeping. You
enter the business purpose, the date, and your daily start and end
mileage, then MileageSaver will calculate the monetary return you're
entitled to based on the current government standards of
dollars-per-miles traveled (and it also allows for calculation of
mileage as far back as 1999). MileageSaver will then save your entered
data as a text file or an Excel spreadsheet file - whichever you prefer.

 License : Shareware, $5
 Author/Publisher : Maury McCown/RAILhead Design
 Modification Date : November 29, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 3.5 MB

 Home Page 

 MoneyWorks 5.2.5 

The MoneyWorks family of accounting software provides a range of feature rich but
easy-to-use solutions for small-to-medium organisations. Whether you operate from home or
have several hundred staff, there is a MoneyWorks solution for you. MoneyWorks is the
accounting software that can do the things the others can't: from simple things like
making your valuable transaction data easily accessible, through to the more powerful,
such as being able to prepare complex three-dimensional weighted cross-tabulations on your
sales data-it's all about getting information to improve management decision making.
MoneyWorks is robust, fast, and scalable yet simple and user-friendly, with an excellent
audit trail and superior reporting capabilities.

 License : Demo, Cashbook $154, Express $309, Gold $616
 Author/Publisher : Cognito Software, LTD
 Modification Date : November 26, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 24.0 MB - Gold 5.2.5

 Download 
File Size: 22.6 MB - Express 5.2.5

 Download 
File Size: 21.4 MB - Cashbook 5.2.6

 Updates 

 Home Page 

 MultiLedger 7.0.8 

A proven integrated, networkable financial package for small businesses,
MultiLedger is easy to use and installs quickly. Whether you need
software to help manage jobs, run real-time reports, track costs,
monitor cash flow, or produce up-to-the-minute financial reports, you
can choose MultiLedger with confidence. Run it on a network so your
office team can help manage A/R, A/P, inventory, and more.

 License : Demo, $399
 Author/Publisher : CheckMark Software 
 Modification Date : July 22, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X

 Download 
File Size: 2.4 MB - version 7.0.7 Demo

 Download 
File Size: 6.3 MB - version 7.0.8 Update

 Home Page 

 MYOB AccountEdge 2008 

MYOB AccountEdge automates, organizes and processes all your business
tasks and financial information - so you can focus on business.

Create and track sales and purchases, handle all your banking, process
payroll, inventory and jobs, track and bill time, actively manage your
customers and access over 195 financial reports to start and maintain a
well-organized, successful business.

AccountEdge integrates fully with MYOB Business Services, allowing you
to accept credit cards from your MYOB invoice, offer direct deposit of
employee paychecks, pay vendors electronically, print certified payroll
forms on plain paper, or elect to eFile, and/or sign up for full-service
payroll.

 License : Demo, AccountEdge $299, FirstEdge $99
 Author/Publisher : MYOB
 Modification Date : December 12, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 101 MB - AccountEdge 2008 Demo

 Download 
File Size: 69.6 MB - FirstEdge 3.0 Demo - January 5, 2007

 Home Page 

 Now Up-to-Date and Contact 5.3.2 

Now Up-to-Date & Contact is a software calendar and address book. And
more. Not only can you keep track of your calendar and contacts, but you
can share them with others - your business, organization of any kind,
your family.

 License : Demo, $130
 Author/Publisher : Now Software
 Modification Date : April 7, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4

 Download 
File Size: 17.6 MB - Demo

 Home Page 

 OfficeTime 1.4.2 

You are busy: you shouldn't have to think about how to track your time.
 You should just track it, simply, intuitively and trouble free.
 You need to know where your time goes. You need easy to use,
adaptable reporting to let you know exactly what you've been up to.
 You need flexibility. You want it simple but when you dig deeper,
you want the power to track your time your way. You want the little
polishes that make using a program a joy to use.
 You need OfficeTime.

 License : Shareware, $25
 Author/Publisher : Transcena Design
 Modification Date : January 3, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 12.9 MB

 Home Page 

 OmniPlan 1.6.1 

With OmniPlan, you can create logical, manageable project plans with Gantt charts,
schedules, summaries, milestones, and critical paths. Break down the tasks needed to make
your project a success, optimize resources, and streamline budgets. It's project
management made painless.

 License : Shareware, $150
 Author/Publisher : The Omni Group
 Modification Date : November 19, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4.8 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 38.8 MB

 Home Page 

 Payroll 7.9.2 

CheckMark Payroll for Macintosh is the complete, affordable payroll
solution for your small business.

 License : Demo, $249
 Author/Publisher : CheckMark Software 
 Modification Date : December 24, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X

 Download 
File Size: 3.1 MB - version 7.9.2 updater

 Download 
File Size: 2.9 MB - version 7.8.0 Demo - December 3, 2007

 Home Page 

 PowerCard 3.0 

PowerCard is new, but it uses principles established in project
management for years. PowerCard uses an innovative and intuitive "task
card" based interface where you create index cards that represent the
tasks you need to accomplish and slide them around to organize them into
priorities and milestones. This sort of organizational methodology has
been in use for years by Project Managers who carried index cards around
in their pockets. But PowerCard is the first application for the
Macintosh to bring the power of these index cards to software.

 License : Demo, $60
 Author/Publisher : Random Ideas
 Modification Date : March 16, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.5 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 2.0 MB

 Home Page 

 Project Calculator 3.2 

Project Calculator is a tool that helps you track the time you work on your projects.
You can manage several projects at the same time.

Whenever you worked on a project, you create an entry which contains information on when
you worked, how long you worked and what you did.

 License : Shareware, $15
 Author/Publisher : Blue Banana Software
 Modification Date : November 26, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 4.5 MB

 Home Page 

 Project X 1.5.2 

Project X takes a redefined approach to traditional project management
by focusing on collaboration, communication, and management while
minimizing the burden of tedious data entry and cumbersome workflows.
Whether you are a visual thinker, a list maker or a traditional project
manager, Project X provides you with options designed to help you work
the way you think. View your project as a diagram or as a traditional
Gantt chart - the choice is yours - which means that you don't have to work
in a counter-intuitive environment. After all, project management
shouldn't be a project by itself.

 License : Demo, $200
 Author/Publisher : Marware, Inc.
 Modification Date : September 24, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4.11 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 947 Kb - Installer will download the 80+ MB program

 Home Page 

 Qif Master 6.9 

QIF Master makes it easier to enter banking, credit card, and investment
transactions into Quicken.

Bank and Credit Card Transactions: Many online banks and credit card
companies allow you to download recent transactions (checks, deposits,
credit card charges, etc.) into a file in the Quicken Interchange Format
(QIF), so that you can import these transactions into your Quicken
account. The problem with this approach is that typically the bank has
no way of assigning meaningful categories to the transactions. So, if
you care about categorizing your Quicken transactions, you must go
through each transaction you have just imported in Quicken, and add
categories. QIF Master automates this process.

Some banks and credit card companies also produce transaction histories
in QFX or OFX format. OFX is an open standard format, and QFX is a
Quicken-specific variant. Quicken can import QFX format (Quicken calls
this Web Connect) and match transactions with transactions already in
your register. This matching is useful, but if you like your
transactions automatically categorized, you might prefer to process the
QFX or OFX with QIF Master, which will convert it to QIF and add
categories. If all you have available is OFX, you cannot import it into
Quicken, but you can convert it to QIF and then import it.

QIF Master adds Quicken categories based on the description (e.g. payee)
of each transaction. To convert a QIF file, just drop it onto QIF
Master. You can configure QIF Master as a browser helper application
for files of type application/qif to have it run automatically on
downloaded QIF files. The resulting file can then be imported into
Quicken.

 License : Shareware, $16
 Author/Publisher : John Woodward
 Modification Date : November 16, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2.8 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 4.7 MB

 Home Page 

 QuickBooks Pro 2009 10.0.3 R4 

Grow your business with the America's #1 small business financial
software. It's built for Mac users by Mac users, with the ease of use
you need to focus on making money.
 Made for the Mac, with the simplicity you expect
 Create invoices, pay bills, and manage expenses in minutes
 Be ready at tax time with complete & accurate records

 License : Update, $200
 Author/Publisher : Intuit
 Modification Date : December 23, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.5.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 112.0 MB - 2009 10.0.3 R4 Updater

 Download 
File Size: 86.8 MB - 2007 R7 Updater

 Home Page 

 ReceiptWallet 2.0.8 

ReceiptWallet is a Mac OS X program that allows you to scan in and manage your receipts.
When you scan in each receipt, you enter a few pieces of information about the receipt
such as the merchant, the amount, and category and then you can quickly and easily locate
your receipts. You can view the receipts right on the screen, print them, email them, or
save them as PDFs. In addition to the powerful search built into ReceiptWallet, you can
organize your receipts into collections. These collections can contain whatever you want
and even better than that is the ability to create smart collections that automatically
create collections based on whatever criteria you like. For instance, you can create a
smart collection that contains all of your grocery store receipts or one that contains
receipts for a certain year. The possibilities are endless.

 License : Shareware, $30
 Author/Publisher : GGT Enterprises
 Modification Date : October 1, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4.8 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 6.1 MB

 Home Page 

 SOHO Organizer 7.0.4 

SOHO Organizer is the official successor to Personal Organizer and Group
Organizer and represents a 100% Cocoa rewrite of the former products.
This means SOHO Organizer presents a first-class Mac OS X experience
complete with all the features Mac OS X users expect: Aqua interface,
Unicode compliance, built-in spell checking, Service support, etc.
Finally, the true benefit of a complete Cocoa rewrite is that SOHO
Organizer is built for the future and can easily accommodate future
technologies (think Intel-based Macs).

SOHO Organizer makes managing customer relationships from phone calls
and notes to appointments and to-dos easy. It embraces and leverages
popular Mac OS X technologies and applications instead of trying to
replace them. For example, it synchronizes seamlessly with the Address
Book and iCal so that users can continue to use them and other
applications that rely on their data. Users can thus use Apple's iSync
to synchronize their contacts and calendars in SOHO Organizer to cell
phones, iPods, Palm handhelds, and even .Mac.

 License : Demo, $100
 Author/Publisher : Chronos
 Modification Date : January 30, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.5.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 68.0 MB

 Home Page 

 Stone Hill Invoicer 1.3.5 

Stone Hill Invoicer makes invoices dead simple. Stop shuffling papers
and struggling with spreadsheets.

 License : Shareware, $47
 Author/Publisher : Codehackers
 Modification Date : November 29, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 2.0 MB

 Home Page 

 Studiometry 6.1.3 

Track every little detail, see the big picture.
 Clients - All of the companies you work for
 Accounting - Business expenses, Inventory, Tax Reports...
 Contacts - Everyone who works at the companies
 Calendar - Easily view your events, To Do's, deadlines
 Invoices - Automatically generate invoices for your tracked work
 Search Everything - All of your information, accessed from one search field
 Reports - Automatically generate common paperwork
 Mac OS X Syncing - Sync your information with Address Book and iCal
 Debt/Credits - Tracked time, expenses, items, all to be invoiced
 Project Planning - Set and view tasks, dependencies, and milestones
 Multiple Employees - Set permissions, track timesheets and tasks, and more
 Track Time - Easily track then invoice time using your customized rates
 Alerts - Know when invoices, to-do's and projects are overdue
 and more ...

 License : Demo, $210
 Author/Publisher : Oranged Software
 Modification Date : April 6, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 28.0 MB

 Home Page 

 TaskTime 4.5.9 

TaskTime3 can make tracking time on projects a snap. Generate custom
invoices then print, email, or save them.

Unlimited clients, unlimited projects for each client.

 License : Shareware, $15
 Author/Publisher : ToThePoint Software
 Modification Date : March 6, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.1 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 11.2 MB

 Home Page 

 TimeCache 7.0.13 

TimeCache makes it quick and easy to track your time and expenses on
billable projects. You enter time and expenses in a Daily Log that's
like an electronic timesheet. You can see your day's work reflected
here, plus any expenses you incur that you want to make sure you bill
for. New Default Sets let you quickly load your Daily Log screen at the
beginning of the day with a set of projects you're likely to work on.

TimeCache makes it easy to enter data. You create listings of items like
clients, projects and billing categories for time and expenses.
TimeCache offers a List Manager where you can quickly add, remove,
edit, import and export list items for instant access when you're
recording your time and expenses. If you work on a retainer basis with
some or all of your clients, TimeCache makes it easy to keep track of
your billable charges.

 License : Shareware, $50
 Author/Publisher : PandaWare
 Modification Date : August 14, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 15.1 MB

 Home Page 

 TimeEqualsMoney 3.4.4 

TimeEqualsMoney by Stone Design is a consultant's best friend! Track
work sessions for any number of clients. Pause and resume your work
sessions. Track billable expenses. Instantly create customizable
invoices and reports. Export the information to any spreadsheet or
database.

 License : Shareware, $49
 Author/Publisher : Stone Design
 Modification Date : August 8, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 2.4 MB

 Home Page 

 TimeLog 4.4.3 

Keeping track of the time you spend on your projects has never been
easier. Offering an interface similar to iTunes, every Mac user feels
familiar with TimeLog.

Integrates with iCal, Address Book, .mac Sync and iSync TimeLog analyzes
your iCal calendars and calculates the time you spend on your projects.
You can assign clients to your projects from the MacOS X Address Book.
If you work on different Macs that are synchronized with .mac your time
sheets will always be up to date.

 License : Sharewre, $25
 Author/Publisher : Media Atelier
 Modification Date : March 7, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.5 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 5.4 MB

 Home Page 

 TimeNet 3.9.21 

Simple. Powerful. Practical. Intelligent invoicing has arrived. TimeNet
is so easy to understand that anyone and everyone will be able to keep
track of every second spent on projects, easily create tax reports at
the end of the year, view outstanding bills, keep track of payments, and
visually track work flow through the months.

 License : Shareware, $45
 Author/Publisher : AppleSource
 Modification Date : January 20, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 9.9 MB

 Home Page 

 TimeSlice 4.2.1 

TimeSlice by Modesitt Software is an easy-to-use time-tracking and
billing application for OS 9 through OS X.

 License : Shareware, $49
 Author/Publisher : Modesitt Software
 Modification Date : November 12, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.5 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.6 MB

 Home Page 

 Time Tracker 1.2.6 

Track the time you spend on projects with this simple and easy-to-use
application. Divide your work into projects, and split each into
individual tasks. Stay honest, and not count those coffee breaks with
the built-in idle time alerts. A menu bar icon reminds you at a glance
whether the timer is running and allows you to easily stop and start the
timer.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Aaron VonderHaar
 Modification Date : February 15, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.1 MB

 Home Page 

 TinyBooks 6.0.1 

TinyBooks is an easy-to-use, non-bloated, single-entry accounting and
bookkeeping system for the Macintosh. Designed for Sole Proprietors, and
small businesses, TinyBooks can also be used to help with the family
finances.

 License : Shareware, $49
 Author/Publisher : Ken Winograd
 Modification Date : September 4, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X and Mac OS 8.6 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 249 Kb

 Home Page 

 WorkTimer 2.0.4 

Because life is short and your time is limited, your clients should at
least pay you for what you do. With WorkTimer at you desktop there will
be no doubt! Its real easy! This nice and handy utility will never
disturb you with fancy graphs and all that wrap-up. While you focus on
being creative, WorkTimer will do the time job.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Gerhard Sletten
 Modification Date : November 11, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 164 Kb

 Home Page 

 xTime Project 4.6.1 

With xTime Project, creating, tracking and managing your projects will be much easier.
Check out the features that xTime Project has to offer and explore how easy it is to manage your complex projects.

xTime Project is designed to keep track of tasks and calculate a project's cost. xTime Project provides
all the tools you need for professional project management. We have made the lastest version even more
powerful without sacrificing the simple and intuitive interface that helped make xTime Project a success
with thousands of users worldwide. Whether your job calls for managing large construction projects,
complex media activities or detailed time schedules, xTime Project is the tool you need. It is easy to use
and will help you organize, administer and monitor your tasks allowing you more time to manage your projects
and less time to learn how to use project management software.

 License : Shareware, $139
 Author/Publisher : app4mac
 Modification Date : January 2, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.5 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 17.9 MB

 Home Page 

 Denotes Mac OS X Intel Native 
 Denotes Mac OS X Intel & PPC Native 
 Denotes Mac OS X PPC Native 
 Denotes Mac OS 8/9 PPC Native 
 Denotes Mac OS 680x0 Native 
 Denotes Non-OS Specific Code 

 Back to the Main Page of Pure Mac