Pure Mac: Cross-Platform 

 Cross-Platform 

 Aladdin Expander for Windows 
 BBEdit Lite 
 CU-SeeMe 

 Dave 
 GraphicConverter 

 Internet Phone 
 MacLinkPlus 

 NameCleaner 
 SoundApp 

 Timbuktu Pro 
 Unify 

 Word 97-98 Converter 
 Zip It! 

 The Cross-Platform Page 
 emulation.net 
- Emulators for Apple II, Amiga, Atari, Commodore, Nintendo and much more, including VirtualPC and SoftWindows of course.

 Mac OS Software and Hardware Guide 
 Apple's own extensive listing of software and hardware products - Check in the Networking section for cross-platform software and hardware
 Hints and tips on conversion 
 MacWindows 

 Quick Tips 
Check the Extensions Key at this site to find applications to view and or use any file you are likely to come across. 
 Audio - If you have a Mac System 7 sound file (.snd) and you want a PC or Unix user to be able to hear it, your best bet is to get a program such as SoundApp and convert it to wav or aiff format. There really are not any Unix or PC apps designed to play Mac System 7 sounds, although there are a few such as GoldWave which can play raw sound files that may work. 

 Compression - To send a large file or to make a large file available to PC or Unix users you may want to compress it. Stuffit does a very good job at compressing files, but it is quite possible the PC user will not have Alladin Expander for Windows 9x/NT to expand it. Your best bet is to Zip the file. Zip is another
excellent compression format and most PC and Unix users will have a utility to expand it. Mac users can use Zip It! (make sure you have Macbinary turned off in the Zip It preferences) to zip files. 

 Disk Exchange - If you have a Mac, exchanging floppy disks between a PC is quite simple since the Mac can read, write and format PC disks. If you have a PC and need to read a Mac disk or format a disk for a Mac, you will need a utility such as MacDisk which comes in a Dos Shareware version and $89 Windows versions.
The commercial Mac-in-Dos Plus ($99.95) and MacOpener ($49) are also capable of reading, writing and formatting Mac disks on a PC as is Media4 Productions, Inc.'s MacDrive 95 . Note: these applications only format high density disks, not dual density disks. 

 Email Attachements - If you are mailing an attachement to a PC or Unix user, you want to select Apple Double in Eudora and Base64 in Claris Emailer . Another term for Apple Double and Base64 is MIME. Of course if you are sending to another Mac user, Binhex is always a good choice. If for some reason the PC user does not have a MIME capable email client, you should uuencode the file you are emailing. 

 Graphics - The most common graphics files on the internet are GIF and JPEG. Macs, PCs and Unix systems all handle GIF and JPEG files with ease so there is not much to worry about when sending or receiving them with cross-platform systems. Any other graphic file format you are likely to encounter can be viewed or converted using GraphicConverter . 

 Internet Phone - The only decent and widely used stand-alone cross-platform internet phone at this time is Internet Phone . 

 Network File Sharing - The only NFS client for the Mac widely available at this time is Thursby's MacNFS . 

 PC Networking - The two most popular solutions for PC/Mac Networking at present are the commercial products DAVE and PC MacLAN. 
 Thursby Software Systems', DAVE is a Macintosh program which is the only Macintosh file and print client for
Windows NT and Windows 95 that uses TCP/IP and not AppleTalk. DAVE makes the Macintosh totally compatible and interoperable with Wintel
networks, enabling the Macintosh to fit into Microsoft networks as if it were a PC, with remote
access to NT Servers and printers. 
 Mirimar Systems' PC MacLAN is a Windows95 program which is
the only full featured, peer to peer networking software for sharing files, disks, CD ROMS,
printers and other resources between Macintoshes and Windows 95 PCs. 

 QuickTime Movies - QuickTime is a great cross-platform video format. However, a QuickTime movie made for your Mac won't run on a PC due to the Mac's use of Data and Resource forks. A PC needs the movie to be in one file. Flattening a QuickTime movie will put everything in one file.
 Unify is one application which will flatten your QuickTime movies and prepare them for cross-platform use to post on the web etc. 

 Text Files - Macintosh, Unix and IBM clones all use different carriage returns as well as other formatting keys when making a text file. If you've ever noticed weird boxes scattered throughout a text file you opened in SimpleText, this is the reason. If you want to make sure your text file looks correct for a PC or Unix user, you should get a program such as BBEdit Lite to save the file in Unix or Dos format. BBedit is also great for editing scripts etc. for your Unix shell.

 Video Conferencing - The first internet video conferencing software is still the best for seeing your cross-platform friends. CU-SeeMe is free and adequate for the undiscriminating. can
also purchase Enhanced CU-SeeMe . 

 Aladdin Expander for Windows 95/98/NT 5.1.1 

Only Aladdin Expander 2.0 gives Windows users an easy way
to expand all the popular compressed or encoded files
downloaded from online services and the Internet.
Aladdin Expander 2.0 for Windows expands files from the
most popular archiving and compression formats found online,
including StuffIt (.sit) and ZIP (.zip). Aladdin Expander will
also expand files in uuencoded (.uue), BinHex (.hqx), and
MacBinary (.bin) formats, such as those commonly found on
the Internet. Other archive formats supported include ARC
(.arc), Arj (.arj), and gzip (.gz). 

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Alladin Systems
 Modification Date : December 6, 2000
 Requirements : Windows9x/NT

 Direct Download
 File Size: 1815 Kb

 Parent Directory 

 Home Page 

 BBEdit Lite 6.1.2 

Still a great little editor and probably all many people will need.
Also, useful for opening up documents for which you don't have a translator. It may not be pretty but
you can view the text by selecting Any File in the dialog box.
Also, helpful in converting Mac text files to and from DOS or Unix.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Bare Bones Software
 Modification Date : October 2, 2001
 Requirements : PPC, System 7.5.5 and higher and Mac OS X

 Direct Download
 File Size: 4647 Kb - version 6.1.2

 Direct Download
 File Size: 1774 Kb - version 4.6 - 680x0 compatible

 Parent Directory 

 Home Page 

 CU-SeeMe 1.0b10 (Cornell) 

The first videoconferencing application on the Internet. 1.0bx supports color. White Pine acquired solo rights (12/98)
to CU-SeeMe so 0.87b3 will be the last version from Cornell.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Cornell University
 Modification Date : October 4, 1998
 Requirements : 68020 or better

 Download Page
 File Size: 435 Kb - Fat version 1.0b10 - released October 4, 1998

 Direct Download
 File Size: 414 Kb - 68k version 0.87b3 - released September 29, 1997

 Direct Download
 File Size: 535 Kb -PPC version 0.87b3 - released September 29, 1997

 The Cu-SeeMe Network 

 CaribChat C.U-See.Me Web Page 

 The Cu-SeeMe Cool Site 

 Direct Download
 File Size: 332 Kb - Imposter 1.3 - Enables you to import pictures from other Macintosh applications, then send them to
the video conferencing application either as still images, or in an animated sequence. - Released September 18, 1996 - Shareware $20

 DAVE 3.1 

DAVE is really two products in one. To protect your investment, there are
separate installation programs for Mac OS 10.1 and Mac OS 8.6-9.2. DAVE installs
on your Mac, is bi-directional, works over TCP/IP and uses Microsoft native
protocols, so no additional hardware or software is required for the PC. DAVE is
reliable, compatible with your existing software and very user friendly. DAVE
supports large files (more than 2GB); long file names (more than 31 characters)
and you can use it on any size network, no matter how large. And new with DAVE
3.1, inkjet printing is supported in OS X.

 License : Demo - Purchase for $149
 Author/Publisher : Thursby Software
 Modification Date : November 11, 2001
 Requirements : Mac OS 8.6 and higher and Mac OS 10.1

 Direct Download File Size: 4421 Kb - 3.5.1 demo

 Home Page 

 GraphicConverter 4.1 

Views and/or converts almost any image you'll find on the net.
Including transparent gifs, interlaced gifs and progressive jpegs just to name a few.
Pretty decent painting tools too.

 License : Shareware, $35
 Author/Publisher : Thorsten Lemke 
 Modification Date : October 26, 2001
 Requirements : 680x0 or PPC and Mac OS X

 Direct Download
 File Size: 3094 Kb - PPC version

 Direct Download
 File Size: 3480 Kb - Carbon version

 Direct Download
 File Size: 2303 Kb - 68k version

 Download Page 

 Home Page 

 Internet Phone 3.5.26 

Supported by an interactive display, and an animated assistant, Internet Phone
represents an entirely new -- and completely
affordable -- way to speak with friends and
colleagues around the world.
Version 3.5 has internet to regular phone capabliities.

 License : Demo - 7 day - Purchase for $49.95
 Author/Publisher : VocalTec 
 Modification Date : February 23, 1998
 Requirements : 68040 with FPU or better, System 7.5.1 or better

 Direct Download
 File Size: 1694 Kb - PPC Version 3.5.26 - released February 23, 1998

 Direct Download
 File Size: 1245 Kb - 68k Version 3.1 - released December 26, 1996

 Direct Download
 File Size: 1313 Kb - PPC Version 3.1 - released December 26, 1996

 Parent Directory 

 Download Page 

 Home Page 

 MacLinkPlus 13 

File conversion utility for translating files from Mac to PC format and vice versa. 
Translate word processing, spreadsheet, database and graphic formats. 
Convert files bi-directionally while retaining your document formatting - no more
retyping! 
Open unreadable e-mail attachments. 
View virtually any file type. 
Powerful "control-click" access to MacLinkPlus features for OS 8 and Power Mac users. 

 License : Free Updater
 Author/Publisher : DataViz
 Modification Date : July 12, 2001
 Requirements : 680x0 or PPC and Mac OS X

 Direct Download
 File Size: 1823 Kb - 12.002 updater - released November 21, 2000

 Direct Download
 File Size: 761 Kb - 11.002 updater - released December 30, 1999

 Direct Download
 File Size: 590 Kb - 10.003 updater - released October 26, 1998

 Home Page 

 NameCleaner 2.0.1 

NameCleaner is a utility to manipulate file names and types. It's specially 
designed to help move files to and from foreign file systems such as MS-DOS, Windows 3.x, Windows95, Windows NT, NetWare and Unix.
 Filters ("Cleaners") are available in NameCleaner for the following 
functions : 
* Give files with DOS extensions Mac Type/Creator codes and suffixes. 
* Remove non-viewable characters, "smart"en quotes, and pad punctuations. 
* Capitalise words of different lengths, and apply a dictionary. 
* Find and replace any definable phrase with a corresponding phrase. 
* Append file information (size, date, type) with a dictionary for types. 
* Filter Mac names for MS-DOS, Windows 3.x, Windows95, NetWare and others 
* Give files with definable Types corresponding DOS/Windows Extensions. 
* Automatically resolve clashing duplicate file names arising.

 License : Shareware, $20
 Author/Publisher : Gideon Greenspan
 Modification Date : December 8, 1999
 Requirements : 680x0 or PPC

 Direct Download
 File Size: 347 Kb 

 Home Page 

 SoundApp 2.7.3 

SoundApp can play or convert files dropped onto it in a variety of formats. In
addition, it supports Play Lists which are lists of sound files that can be saved
for later usage. Files in a Play List can be played or converted as a group or
individually. SoundApp supports a randomized shuffle playback mode and repeated
playback of Play Lists.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Norman Franke
 Modification Date : November 13, 2000
 Requirements : 680x0 or PPC

 Direct Download
 File Size: 593 Kb - PPC version 2.7.3 

 Direct Download
 File Size: 794 Kb - 68k version 2.7.3

 Home Page 

 Timbuktu Pro 5.2.4 

Timbuktu is a cross platform application which gives you access to remote computers on the internet or 
other networks and lets you run them as if you were there. You can use programs on remote computers
from across the world, transfer files, see the screen of the remote computer in "real time" (Mac or Win), etc. 

 License : Demo, $99
 Author/Publisher : Farallon
 Modification Date : December 7, 2000
 Requirements : 680x0 or PPC

 Direct Download
 File Size: 5161 Kb - Demo

 Update Page

 Parent Directory 

 Home Page 

 Unify 1.0.2 

This QuickTime utility pack from AKUA contains the following little 
programs:

Unify - Merge non-overlapping tracks of the same flavour.

FlatIn - Flatten a movie for class platform use.

Splice - Rebuild all text tracks in a movie (we had performance problems when QT 
Movies of older versions were edited in newer versions).

All are drop-on applications. You just drop your files onto the icon and 
they do their stuff. Nothing to configure.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Akua
 Modification Date : June 13, 1997
 Requirements : 680x0 or PPC

 Direct Download
 File Size: 48 Kb

 Parent Directory

 Word 97-98 Converter 

If you use Word 5.1 or 6.0 for Mac and ever need to work with files created in Word 97
for Windows, download & install this converter. You can now open Word 97 for
Windows and Word 98 for Macintosh files directly.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Microsoft
 Modification Date : November 17, 1997
 Requirements : 680x0

 Direct Download
 File Size: 813 Kb

 Home Page 

 Zip It! 1.4 

ZipIt is a Macintosh program that zips and unzips archives in a format fully compatible with PKZip for the IBM
and zip implementations on other systems. A zip archive is any file that ends with the extension '.zip'. The zip format is popular on the IBM, and is widely
used as an interplatform compression format. In addition, ZipIt can compress Macintosh applications and
documents without losing any of their data. ZipIt is best used when transferring compressed documents to and
from other computer types. Some examples are: text files, TIFF pictures, Excel databases, and QWK message
packets, to name just a very few. Note that files that end in '.Z' or '.gz' are not ZipIt files, even though
Netscape may give them a ZipIt icon. 

 License : Shareware, $15
 Author/Publisher : Thomas Brown
 Modification Date : September 25, 1999
 Requirements : 680x0 or PPC

 Direct Download
 File Size: 827 Kb

 Home Page 

 Back to the main page of Pure Mac