Pure Mac: Download Managers - Software For Macintosh 

 Download Managers 

 DeepVacuum 
 Download Wizard 
 Download Accelerator Plus 

 Envoy 
 Get-A-Matic 
 GNU wget 
 iGetter 

 Monica 
 Platypus Downloader 
 Speed Download 

 DeepVacuum 1.27 

DeepVacuum is a shareware, a useful web utility based on GNU wget
command line tool. Program includes a vast number of options to fine
tune your downloads through both http and ftp protocols.

DeepVacuum enables you to download: whole single pages, entire sites,
ftp catalogs, link lists from a text file, filtered types, ex. images.

 License : Shareware, $7
 Author/Publisher : HexCat
 Modification Date : December 24, 2004
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Direct Download 
 File Size: 871 Kb

 Home Page 

 Download Accelerator Plus 2.1 

Download Accelerator Plus (DAP), the world's leading download manager,
allows you to download up to 300% faster with increased reliability,
resume support and error recovery.

DAP is now available for Mac, with the power and features which made it
the most popular download manager for Windows.

DAP is fully integrated into the browser, providing the best possible
performance from ANY Internet connection (dial-up, cable, DSL / ADSL, T1
etc.), allowing a faster and more reliable download experience.

 License : Shareware, $30
 Author/Publisher : Speedbit
 Modification Date : October 27, 2004
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Direct Download 
 File Size: 2.7 MB

 Home Page 

 Download Wizard 1.5 

Download Wizard is a small, elegant and powerful replacement for your
browser's built-in download manager. It is written entirely in Cocoa, so
it integrates seamlessly with Mac OS X and includes features you'd
expect from a Cocoa-based application: dock menus, service availability,
dock icon status, localization, etc. It strives to be small, fast and
reliable while making use of all the abilities of Apple's newest OS.

 License : Shareware, $17
 Author/Publisher : Whizzo Software
 Modification Date : January 6, 2004
 Requirements : Mac OS X

 Direct Download 
 File Size: 520 Kb

 Home Page 

 Envoy 1.0 

Envoy is a download manager supporting the HTTP, FTP, and Gnutella
protocols. It can resume transfers seamlessly, including those started
from other programs.

 License : Shareware, $18
 Author/Publisher : Bains Software
 Modification Date : May 27, 2003
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Direct Download 
 File Size: 1.6 MB

 Direct Download 
 File Size: 1 MB

 Home Page 

 Get-A-Matic 1.2.1 

Get-A-Matic is an Internet download manager. It allows you to queue up a
list of files you want to download, then rapidly download them, using a
simple, straight-forward interface.

 License : Donationware
 Author/Publisher : SJB
 Modification Date : December 23, 2004
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Direct Download 
 File Size: 492 Kb

 Home Page 

 GNU wget 1.9.1 

GNU Wget is a free software package for retrieving files using HTTP,
HTTPS and FTP, the most widely-used Internet protocols. It is a
non-interactive commandline tool, so it may easily be called from
scripts, cron jobs, terminals without Xsupport, etc.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : GNU
 Modification Date : November 11, 2003
 Requirements : Mac OS X

 Direct Download 
 File Size: 1.3 MB - version 1.9.1

 Direct Download 
 File Size: 1.1 MB - version 1.8.2

 Fink Package Search

 Home Page 

 iGetter 2.1 

iGetter is download utility that gives you convenience and facility in
downloading on the Internet. The great advantage of iGetter is its
ability to resume broken downloads, checking date and size. Behind its
pleasant interface is hidden powerful download engine. And in addition
iGetter has many useful functions like Internet browsers integration,
segmented (accelerated) downloading, file mirroring, queue filtering on
various criteria, processing web page links, scheduling downloads for
low traffic periods, reconnecting modems, hang up and shut down when the
downloads are done.

 License : Shareware, $25
 Author/Publisher : Presenta Software Company
 Modification Date : December 22, 2004
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher and System 7.5.3 or higher

 Direct Download 
 File Size: 1.2 MB

 Direct Download 
 File Size: 896 Kb

 Home Page 

 Monica 4.0b2 

Downloading files from the Internet has never been easier thanks to Monica.
Monica, the Mac download manager:
 Uses FTP, HTTP and Hotline protocols to download your favorite free stuff (free mp3s, music, games, screensavers, clipart, maps and more!)
 Is a great time saver for people who download many or large files from the internet
 Allows you to either create a download queue of many files or download one file at a time.
 Automatically retries if the server connection is dropped
 Automatically restarts downloads without losing what you already have 
 PLEASE NOTE: For the latest betas you must download the current full
version and then the latest beta file, as the latest betas contain only
the binary program.

 License : Shareware, $20
 Author/Publisher : Black Diamond Products
 Modification Date : November 30, 2003
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.0.1 or higher

 Direct Download 
 File Size: 2.1 MB version 3.0pb2

 Direct Download 
 File Size: 1.7 MB 4.0b2 update

 Direct Download 
 File Size: 1.6 MB version 3.0pb1

 Home Page 

 Platypus 1.0.1 

Platypus Downloader is a resumable downloader that let's you download
http or ftp files in bulk. You add as many urls as you want to a list,
select a directory where you want the files stored and start the
download process, leaving Platypus Downloader to download the files
sequentially.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Single Brain Cell
 Modification Date : September 24, 2002
 Requirements : Mac OS X

 Direct Download 
 File Size: 304 Kb

 Home Page 

 Speed Download 2.3.7 

Enriched with a totally redesigned Mac OS X interface and features that
take advantage of leading edge Macintosh technology, Speed Download 2 is
the fastest, most complete download manager for Mac OS X.

 License : Shareware, $20
 Author/Publisher : YazSoft
 Modification Date : December 22, 2004
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2.8 or higher

 Direct Download 
 File Size: 2.4 MB

 Direct Download 
 File Size: 764 Kb

 Home Page 

 Back to the main page of Pure Mac 
 Denotes Mac OS X Compatibility 
 Denotes Mac OS 8/9 PPC Compatibility 
 Denotes 680x0 Compatibility