Pure Mac: Desktop Publishing - Software for Macintosh 

 Desktop Publishing 

 Web 

 Pure-Mac.com 

 Graphics 
 Helpers/Add-Ons 
 Image Layout 
 Label Printing 
 Page Layout 
 PDF 

 Canvas 
 Freehand 
 Illustrator 
 Photoshop 

 BookSmart 
 FlightCheck 
 FontWizardXT 
 QX-Tools 
 XPert Tools 

 ImageBuddy 
 Portraits & Prints 
 Snapshot 
 Imposition 
 Bookletizer 
 BookLightning 
 Cheap Impostor 
 CocoaBooklet 

 Addressix 
 Disc Cover 
 DiscLabel 
 Discus 
 EasyEnvelopes 
 Imprint 
 Label Printer Pro 
 Mail Factory 
 Snail Mail 
 SOHO Labels 

 Create 
 DesktopPublisher Pro 
 Easy Card 
 iCalamus 
 InDesign 
 MLayout 
 QuarkXPress 
 PageMaker 
 Pages 
 Print Explosion 
 The Print Shop 
 Ragtime 
 Ready, Set, Go! 
 Scribus 
 Swift Publisher 

 Acrobat 
 Combine PDFs 
 Formulate 
 PDFClerk 
 PDFKey Pro 
 PDFLab 
 PDFpen 
 pdf-Recover 
 PDF Shrink 
 PDF Studio 
 PrintToPDF 
 PStill 
 Trapeze 

 You may also want to check the Graphics and Text Editors & Word Processors pages. 

 Free XTensions by Durrant Software 

 Pure Mac 
 Games 

 Action 
 Arcade 
 Board 
 Card 
 Emulators 
 Flight Sims 
 Frivolous 
 Game Utilities 
 MMOG 
 Puzzle 
 RPG 
 Sports & Racing 
 Strategy 
 Word 

 Home 

 Astronomy 
 Calculators & Math 
 Charts & Graphs 
 Collections 
 Health 
 Hobbies & Crafts 
 Kid Stuff 
 Language 
 Parental Control 
 Recipes 
 Science 
 Teaching Aids 
 Typing 
 Weather 

 Internet 

 Collaboration 
 Distributed Computing 
 Download Managers 
 Email 
 FTP 
 Internet Utilities 
 iPad 
 iPhone 
 IRC & IM 
 Online Games 
 Peer-to-Peer 
 Radio 
 Remote Access 
 Usenet 
 Video Conferencing 
 VoIP 

 Multimedia 

 Audio 
 CAD 
 Comics 
 DTP 
 eBook 
 Font Utilities 
 Graphics 
 iTunes & MP3 
 Media Center 
 Music 
 Photoshop Plug-ins 
 Presentation 
 3D & Animation 
 Screen Capture 
 Video 

 System 

 Alternative OS 
 Classic OS Updates 
 Command Line 
 Contextual Menus 
 Cross-Platform 
 Diagnostics 
 CSMs 
 Drivers 
 Face-Lift 
 Launchers 
 Olden 
 Screen Savers 
 Security 
 System Enhancements 
 Virus 
 Widgets 
 X11 

 Utilities 

 Backup 
 Business 
 Calendars & Time 
 Compression 
 Database 
 Disk & File 
 Finance 
 Handhelds 
 Network 
 Notes 
 Programming 
 Spreadsheets 
 Stocks 
 Task Managers 
 Telephony 
 Text Editors 

 WWW 

 Auctions 
 Browsers 
 Browser Add-ons 
 The Cloud & SSBs 
 HTML Editors 
 Page Rippers 
 RSS & Podcasting 
 Site Tweaking 
 Social Networking 
 Web Cams 
 Web Graphics 
 Web Server 

 Extension Key 
 Pure Picks 
 Software Index 

 Acrobat Pro 9.3.1 

The Adobe Acrobat family of products provides the power to deliver
documents that give business, creative, and technical professionals an
intelligent way to get the job done. Create and exchange documents,
collect and compare comments, and tailor the security of a file in order
to distribute reliable and polished Adobe PDF documents.

 License : Pro $449 - No Standard Edition for Macs Available
 Author/Publisher : Adobe
 Modification Date : February 8, 2010
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 16.4 MB - Pro Update 9.3.1

 Updates 

 Home Page 

 Adressix 1.7.8 

Addressix is an envelope printing utility. It's designed to make printing mailing
envelopes quick and easy. Even unusual envelope sizes like greeting cards.

 License : Shareware, $13
 Author/Publisher : A Sharp
 Modification Date : November 19, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 609 Kb

 Home Page 

 Bookletizer 8.0.2 

QuarkXPress automatically creates facing pages in reader's spreads
format. Page two faces page three, just as the pages appear in the final
publication. This is the easiest way to edit text, since you can see the
entire spread at one time. But when it comes time to output a saddle
stitched publication, the document needs to be rearranged into printer's
spreads format. Bookletizer does this for you. With Bookletizer,
converting your document from reader's spreads to printer's spreads is
as easy as a menu command in QuarkXPress. You can even adjust for creep
to make sure the gutter margins of longer documents remain consistent.
Bookletizer lets you convert your document back to reader's spreads just
as easily, so you can edit your document while viewing it the way your
reader will.

 License : Demo, $69
 Author/Publisher : Vision's Edge
 Modification Date : August 11, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 806 Kb

 Home Page 

 BookLightning 1.7.1 

BookLightning is a Mac OS X 10.3 native utility for imposing PDF files
into booklets, either for further processing or to print directly on a
duplex or non-duplex printer. Operation couldn't be simpler: just drop a
PDF file on the BookLightning icon, and it will create a new PDF with
the pages of the original file arranged on sheets that are twice the
size, two up and arranged so that they will form a booklet of the
original size when folded in the middle. BookLightning does its job very
quickly, generating the new PDF file typically takes less than a second.

For non-duplex printers, BookLightning splits the front and back pages,
allowing two-sided booklets to be printed in two passes.

To create a booklet that will be created by printing on and folding
letter size paper ( 8.5 x 11 ), set up your original document's page
size to half that size: 5.5 x 8.5. This is exactly the size that the
individual pages will appear at in the final booklet, because two of
them have to fit on each side of the letter size sheets. For users with
ISO "A"-style paper sizes, just drop down one size from the size of the
paper you will be printing on.

 License : Shareware, $49
 Author/Publisher : Marcel Weiher
 Modification Date : January 25, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 2.0 MB

 Home Page 

 BookSmart 1.9.9 

You want to make your book just right - and so do we. Blurb partners
with the world's leading commercial book printers to bring you:
 Bookstore Quality
 Professional Speedy Printing
 Expandable Affordable Options
 Choose the book you'd like to make.
 Play around. Add photos, blogs, stories, the works.

 License : Service - Pricing per Book 
 Author/Publisher : Blurb, Inc.
 Modification Date : October 16, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4.5 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 39.1 MB

 Home Page 

 Canvas X build887 

Create complex technical illustrations with one comprehensive tool.
Slash the costs and time involved with using multiple graphics and
desktop tools. Use Canvas X to create graphics, edit images, layout
documents and craft eye-catching presentations.

 License : Demo, $350
 Author/Publisher : ACD Systems
 Modification Date : May 12, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2.6 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 59.6 MB - Demo

 Home Page 

 Cheap Impostor 3.2.2 

Cheap Impostor is a simple yet powerful alternative to fancy page
imposition software. It doesn't offer all the features of high-end
imposition software (which costs hundreds of dollars). Hence the name.
However, if you want to print and bind booklets, magazines, or even long
books, this program might be all the imposition software you need.

 License : Shareware, $35
 Author/Publisher : Dylan McNamee
 Modification Date : February 9, 2010
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 776 Kb

 Home Page 

 CocoaBooklet 2.0.4 

CocoaBooklet lets you create a booklet out of a PDF file.

A booklet is book that is bound in the middle. Which means that a
booklet has four pages printed on one sheet of paper (two on each
sides). If you have for example a PDF file with 8 pages, you booklet
will look like this:
 First sheet, first side: pages 8 and 1
 First sheet, second side: pages 2 and 7
 Second sheet, first side: pages 6 and 3
 Second sheet, second side: pages 4 and 5
 The bottom line is that you simply print your booklet, staple it by the middle, fold it in two and you have a book !
 This is also known as "imposition".

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Fabien Conus
 Modification Date : March 7, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.9 MB

 Home Page 

 Combine PDFs 4.1 

Drop some PDF or picture files on the application or the main window.
Reorder or remove pages as you want. Enter some meta information like
the Title and save the new PDF. Analysing and processing of PDFs may
take a while.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Monkeybread Software
 Modification Date : November 18, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 4.1 MB

 Home Page 

 Create 14.2.3 

Create is a professional page layout, illustration and web page
authoring application with many advanced features, and a surprisingly
simple interface.

 License : Demo, $150
 Author/Publisher : Stone Design
 Modification Date : August 8, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 21.6 MB

 Home Page 

 DesktopPublisher Pro 2.2.6 

This is a low cost, high quality, full featured desktop publishing tool
for the professional and novice alike. Desktop Publisher Pro delivers
the power-packed desktop publishing solutions that power users need to
transform concepts into stunning professional quality communications.

 License : Shareware, $20
 Author/Publisher : Metis International, Inc
 Modification Date : December 24, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X

 Download 
File Size: 13.7 MB

 Home Page 

 Disc Cover 2.3 

Imagine neat long rows of beautiful CDs and DVDs on your shelf. Think of
the unique labels of your personal style, bright and inspiring music and
photo collections. Sure you'd love to enjoy them for years. Now, with
Disc Cover decorating your music and video becomes an easy and exciting
task.

Disc Cover is a slick and intuitive Mac OS X software to create labels
and covers for CDs, DVDs and more. Variety of professionally made
designs are just fine for a quick start. The program imports data and
images from iTunes, iPhoto, Finder, iDVD and many other sources. You can
easily experiment with styles and graphic tools. Disc Cover will fairly
serve to bring you more and more design ideas.

 License : Shareware, $35
 Author/Publisher : BeLight Software
 Modification Date : February 5, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 52.3 MB

 Home Page 

 DiscLabel 5.4.1 

With DiscLabel you can create, print, & share CD labels, jewel case inserts, and DVD
covers that look truly professional.

 License : Shareware, $33
 Author/Publisher : SmileOnMyMac
 Modification Date : December 9, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 12.7 MB

 Home Page 

 Discus 4.23 

Discus 4 is a greatly improved tool that you can rely on for labeling of almost anything.
CD labels, Jewel cases, DVD boxes, Mini-DV, DV-Cam, DVC-Pro, Betacam, Umatic, file
folders, visiting cards, signage, audio tapes, jam and jelly jars, an incredible array of
projects can be quickly printed in your home or office.

 License : Demo, $45
 Author/Publisher : Magic Mouse Productions
 Modification Date : November 17, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 31.5 MB - 4.12 Demo

 Download 
File Size: 10.5 MB - 4.23 Updater

 Home Page 

 Easy Card 3.3.4 

Making cards is easy with Easy Card. Easy Card is the easiest and most
connected greeting card creation product available. Create and send
professional quality greeting cards for all occasions, right from your
home computer. Send your greeting cards via regular surface mail or via
e-mail. Use the built in envelope system to create envelopes for your
cards, when sending via surface mail.

 License : Shareware, $30
 Author/Publisher : Script Software
 Modification Date : March 9, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 4.7 MB

 Home Page 

 EasyEnvelopes 1.0.7 

EasyEnvelopes allows you to create picture-perfect envelopes every time.
You can use whatever typefaces you choose for your mailing and return
addresses, control the color of the text, and even use a graphic for a
return address for just the right look. EasyEnvelopes also will
optionally print USPS postal bar codes for both 5 digit and 9 digit zip
codes.

Since EasyEnvelopes integrates with your Address Book, you can quickly
and easily address an envelope to a friend or business contact. Just
type a few letters in their name, select the proper address from the
list of matches, and away you go. EasyEnvelopes also lets you paste in
an address to print, and will even automatically detect when you have an
address on the clipboard!

EasyEnvelopes supports printing on any size envelope, just click on the
Print stamp, and a perfectly formatted envelope will emerge from your
printer seconds later. EasyEnvelopes even supports printing on both the
front and back of an envelope, allowing you to put the return address on
the back for an added touch of class.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Ambrosia Software
 Modification Date : December 20, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 736 Kb

 Home Page 

 FlightCheck Pro 6.12 

Markzware FlightCheck Professional is the prepress application used to
manage quality control for printing. This solution provides both native
file and PDF preflight checking and is backed by a United States patent.
FlightCheck is an essential tool for Creative Designers, Layout Artists,
Prepress Production Departments, Customer Service Reps and Graphics
Professionals within the print and publishing industries; helping them
prepare PDF and other document types for commercial printing.

 License : Demo, Pro $499
 Author/Publisher : MarkzWare
 Modification Date : September 16, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher, 1 GHz or faster

 Download 
File Size: 20.2 MB

 Home Page 

 FontWizardXT 5.21 

Extended EPS-Export for QuarkXPress
 Font embedding
 Export of multipage documents
 Export of parts of a page
 Export styles
 Crop Marks

 License : Demo, $139
 Author/Publisher : JoLauterbach Software
 Modification Date : August 21, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher, QuarkXPress 6.5, 7 or 8

 Download 
File Size: 624 Kb - Demo

 Home Page 

 Formulate Pro 0.0.4 

FormulatePro helps you open and write on PDF documents. You can fill out
any PDF form document, drop in graphics, scribble with the mouse or a
tablet, save and print.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Andrew de los Reyes
 Modification Date : January 20, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 315 Kb

 Home Page 

 Freehand MX 11.0.2 

Macromedia FreeHand 9 is the professional solution for designers publishing for
print and Web, offering sophisticated illustration tools, time-saving
productivity features, and tight integration with the award-winning family of
Macromedia Web publishing software, including Macromedia Flash. Create
eye-catching illustrations, logos, graphics for Macromedia Flash, site
storyboards, and design-intensive documents in the unique design and layout
environment of FreeHand 9.

 License : Demo, $399
 Author/Publisher : Adobe
 Modification Date : February 27, 2004
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2.6 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 44.3 MB - Demo

 Download 
File Size: 6.9 MB - 11.0.2 updater

 Home Page 

 iCalamus 1.15 

 Overview Of The Most Important Features of iCalamus
 - Easiest Frame Editing
 - Virtual Copies
 - Easiest Vector Text Editing
 - Update web pages in your document
 - Live Masking
 - Transparencies
 - Create Text Wrap Paths With Tracer
 - Edit Frames, Objects, Vector Points at the same time
 - Transform Shadows
 - Mirrorizing Text Shadows
 - Ingenious Inspectors
 - Blend Modes for Frames
 - ICC Profile Support

 License : Demo, $129
 Author/Publisher : Invers Software
 Modification Date : November 5, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4.5 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 25.1 MB

 Home Page 

 Illustrator CS4 

Create sophisticated vector artwork for virtually any medium with Adobe
Illustrator software. Capture your ideas easily with
industry-standard drawing tools, and experiment freely with flexible new
color controls. Experience tight integration with other Adobe
applications, and let improved performance help speed you through
creating extraordinary graphics.

 License : Demo, $599
 Author/Publisher : Adobe
 Modification Date : September 19, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4.11 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.44 GB - CS4 Demo

 Download 
File Size: 3.4 MB - CS3 13.0.3 Updater

 Home Page 

 ImageBuddy 4.0 

A digital image layout program designed especially for use on the Mac
that is quick and easy to use. Photo printing on the Macintosh has never
been easier or more flexible.
 Quick page layout - Contact sheet - Thumbnail
 Slide show - Full screen viewing - Grade and sort images
 - Variable resolution - Export jpeg - Import tiff / jpeg
 - Full image rotation - Export images sized for emailing
 - Cropping, masking, and overlays
 - Page caption, image name - Quick image identifcation
 Create event pages (great for school sport pictures)
 ... and much much more!!!

 License : Shareware, $19
 Author/Publisher : KepMad Systems
 Modification Date : April 6, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 13.1 MB

 Download 
File Size: 2.6 MB

 Home Page 

 Imprint 1.4.2 

Printing labels and envelopes just got a whole lot easier.
 You're four steps away from printed labels or envelopes:
 * Choose addresses from the Mac OS X Address Book
 * Select a label template or envelope size
 * Select a typeface and font size
 * Click "Print"

 License : Sharewrae, $20
 Author/Publisher : Ampersandbox
 Modification Date : June 25, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.1 MB

 Home Page 

 InDesign CS4 

Get started today with Adobe InDesign CS3 page layout software to
explore more creative possibilities and be more productive. Enjoy new
creative effects, productivity enhancements, and tight integration with
other Adobe tools: Photoshop, Illustrator, Acrobat, InCopy, and
Dreamweaver software. Streamline long-document publishing and XML
workflows.

 License : Demo, $699
 Author/Publisher : Adobe
 Modification Date : September 19, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4.11 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.08 GB - CS4 Demo

 Download 
File Size: 71.6 MB - CS3 5.0.4 Updater

 Updates Page

 Home Page 

 Label Printer Pro 6.2.3 

Drag and Drop simplicity with many popular label formats. Includes plain paper labels for
removable media cases (jewel cases and j-cases). Now generates serial numbers too!

 License : Shareware, $30
 Author/Publisher : Pay & Play Software
 Modification Date : October 30, 2004
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher and Mac OS 8.6 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.0 MB

 Home Page 

 Mail Factory 2.6.2 

Still writing addresses for your mailings by hand? It's time-taking, inaccurate and not
professional. And it can turn a nightmare if your mailing list is large. We know a better
way.

Mail Factory is an office tool for designing and printing envelopes, postcards, address
and shipping labels on your Macintosh. It's flexible, intuitive, comes with ready-made
designs, and gracefully uses merge printing for automating correspondence.

 License : Shareware, $40
 Author/Publisher : BeLight Software
 Modification Date : April 23, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 23.0 MB

 Home Page 

 MLayout 2.13 

MLayout 2 is a native Mac OS X page layout application which takes
advantage of fast, high-quality rendering of PDF by Quartz,
Unicode-based multilingual support, and the automated pagination based
on XML and tagged RTF. Also, the intuitive tables support, the
designer-oriented user interface, and the direct to Web publishing
feature makes MLayout 2 an easy choice for a novice and a power user
alike.

 License : Demo, $399
 Author/Publisher : Softmagic
 Modification Date : January 12, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 18.3 MB

 Home Page 

 PageMaker 7.0.1 

Adobe PageMaker software is the ideal page layout program for
business, education, and small- and home-office professionals who want
to create high-quality publications such as brochures and newsletters.
Get started quickly with templates, graphics, and intuitive design
tools; work productively across Adobe applications; and easily leverage
existing content to create customized communications.

 License : Demo, $499
 Author/Publisher : Adobe
 Modification Date : February 20, 2002
 Requirements : PPC

 Download 
File Size: 81.8 MB - Demo

 Download 
File Size: 11.5 MB - 7.0.1 updater

 Home Page 

 Pages 4.0 

Stationery, newsletters, resumes, brochures, reports, proposals,
business cards - whatever you write, Pages '08 offers an intuitive way to
create beautiful, media-rich documents using impressive features you
know how to use right away.

 License : $79 for iWork '08
 Author/Publisher : Apple
 Modification Date : January 5, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4.11 or 10.5.6 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 451 MB - iWork '09 Demo (includes Pages 4.0, Keynote 5.0 and Numbers 2.0)

 Download 
File Size: 42.7 MB - iWork 9.0.1 Updater - March 26, 2009

 Download 
File Size: 27.3 MB - Pages 3.0.3 Update - February 2, 2009

 Download 
File Size: 56.1 MB - Updater 2.0.2 - September 28, 2006

 Download 
File Size: 28 MB - Updater 1.0.2 - May 25, 2005

 Home Page 

 PDFClerk 3.5.1 

Using PDFClerk as your personal assistant allows you to, among other things, join multiple
PDF documents together, rearrange the page order, delete individual pages, impose multiple
pages onto a sheet of paper and rotate pages on imposed sheets with ease and flexibility.
Print registration, bleed and crop marks and color and gray-tint bars on imposed pages for
proofing and trimming. Add text and graphics to blank and/or existing PDF pages. Fill out
forms with your choice of fonts and styles.

 License : Shareware, $32
 Author/Publisher : SintraWorks
 Modification Date : February 18, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 7.3 MB

 Home Page 

 PDFKey Pro 3.7.6 

 - Recover Documents: Unlock PDF documents protected for printing and copying when you've forgotten your password.
 - Unlock PDFs: Unlock, with your password, PDF documents that cannot otherwise be viewed.
 - Lock PDFs: Lock PDF document with a password, restrict usage permissions on your documents.
 - Automate: Batch-process multiple PDF files or folders without additional input.

 License : Shareware, $20
 Author/Publisher : Michele Balistreri
 Modification Date : November 16, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4.6 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.7 MB

 Home Page 

 PDFLab 2.0.3r2 

PDFLab lets you split and join PDF documents as well as insert images
and blank pages. You will also be able to easily create PDF documents
out of several images.

Its usage is really simple. You add your files in a list, select the
pages you wish to include, order them the way you want and create a new
PDF document.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Fabien Conus
 Modification Date : January 5, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 3.3 MB

 Home Page 

 PDFpen 4.1.2 

Fill out PDF forms and edit PDFs easily with PDFpen! Split, combine,
reorder, sign and augment PDFs with text, image overlays & watermarks.

 License : Demo, $50 - Pro $95
 Author/Publisher : SmileOnMyMac
 Modification Date : April 6, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 12.2 MB

 Download 
File Size: 12.4 MB - Pro Version

 Home Page 

 pdf-Recover Professional 4.0.1 

pdf-Recover Professional is the leading software solution to disable
restricted operations on PDF files instantly. It decrypts protected
Adobe Acrobat PDF forms & files, which have "master" password set and
removes the security settings with one click. If you can't remember your
PDF passwords, pdf-Recover Professional will allow to reset encrypted
files.

 License : Demo, $52
 Author/Publisher : Universe Software
 Modification Date : January 17, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 2.2 MB

 Home Page 

 PDF Shrink 4.5 

PDFshrink reduces the size of PDF files created by Mac OS X, Adobe
Acrobat Distiller and other applications. PDFshrink compresses images
within the PDF file but PDFshrink doesn't stop there like some competing
software products. We also remove unused elements such as metadata and
thumbnails, eliminate duplicate images, compress non-image parts of a
PDF file and optimize the resolution of the images.

 License : Demo (10-day), $35
 Author/Publisher : Apago, Inc.
 Modification Date : January 7, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 5.2 MB

 Home Page 

 PDF Studio 5.51 

PDF Studio is an easy to use, yet powerful program to work with PDF documents within your workflow.
 - View & Print
 - Sticky Notes
 - Scan to PDF
 - PDF Interactive Forms
 - Audio Comment
 - Extract Text
 - Add hyperlinks to your pdf documents
 - Append, merge or split documents
 - Rubber Stamps
 - Passwords and Permissions
 - Batch functions
 - PDF To Images
 - Add titles, watermarks, page numbers and more... 
 - Import/Export: Import and Export comments and form data in FDF, XFDF or XDP format. 

 License : Demo, $60
 Author/Publisher : Qoppa Software
 Modification Date : March 4, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 8.1 MB

 Home Page 

 Photoshop CS5 12.0 

Take advantage of unrivaled editing and compositing power, a more
 intuitive user experience, and significant productivity enhancements.
 Ideal for:
 Professional photographers
 Serious amateur photographers
 Graphic designers
 Web designers

 License : Demo, $699 - Upgrade $199 - Extended $999
 Author/Publisher : Adobe
 Modification Date : April 30, 2010
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.5.7 or higher, Intel based Mac

 Download 
File Size: 1.14 GB - Photoshop CS5 Demo

 Download 
File Size: 33.1 MB - Photoshop CS4 11.0.1 Update

 Home Page 

 Portraits & Prints 2.2 

Portraits & Prints is your complete solution to turning digital
photographs and scanned images into high quality prints. Digital
photographs can be quickly imported and arranged for output on your
color printer. Besides printing, you can develop your layouts at your
favorite photo center or email your prints to friends. Special tools for
modifying each photo's brightness, contrast, sharpness, and saturation
as well as red eye reduction, cropping, and rotation make it easy to fix
up your photos. Add balloon captions or text to truly personalize your
photos.

 License : Shareware, $30
 Author/Publisher : Econ Technologies, Inc.
 Modification Date : April 12, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2.7 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 5.2 MB

 Home Page 

 Print Explosion 3.0.28 

For years Print Explosion has offered Mac users the fastest, easiest
way to create spectacular custom print projects. Now the all-new Print
Explosion Deluxe 3.0 takes advantage of the latest OS X innovations,
delivering more creative options than ever before - from store-quality
greeting cards and photorealistic scrapbooks to certificates and photo
cards. With more than 13,000 readymade designs, you're sure to find the
perfect design for virtually any occasion.

 License : Update, $50
 Author/Publisher : Nova Development
 Modification Date : July 25, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 10.9 MB

 Home Page 

 The Print Shop 2.0.6 

An all-new Mac OS X Edition of The Print Shop has arrived! With hundreds
of new and improved features, seamless integration with Apple's iApps,
foreign language support, and much more, it's the best version ever.
Indulge your creative side! The Print Shop delivers thousands of
irresistible project ideas including greeting cards, calendars, photo
projects, crafts and so much more.

 License : Update, $70
 Author/Publisher : Software MacKiev
 Modification Date : October 24, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 13.8 MB - 2.0.6 Updater

 Home Page 

 PrintToPDF 2.4.4 

PrintToPDF is a shareware Macintosh printer driver that creates PDF (Adobe
Acrobat) files. You do not need to have the full Acrobat package (as opposed to
the Reader) installed for PrintToPDF to work. You can create PDF bookmarks to
your section and subsection headings, and URLs will become hot links. PrintToPDF
is not as powerful as Acrobat, but it creates simple PDFs for a much lower price.

 License : Shareware, $20
 Author/Publisher : James W. Walker
 Modification Date : September 23, 2002
 Requirements : 680x0 or PPC, System 7 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 700 Kb

 Home Page 

 PStill 5.7.5 

PStill is a user friendly PostScript to PDF convertor with many options
and features. You convert eps, ps, any image format to PDF with drag &
drop. Repurpose PDF directly from any application using PStill. Shrink
PDF, combine files to make one PDF, make posters, automated print work
flow and hot folders.

 License : Demo, $69
 Author/Publisher : Stone Design
 Modification Date : August 8, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 6.6 MB

 Home Page 

 QuarkXPress 8.02 

A powerful yet easy-to-use program, QuarkXPress and QuarkXPress Passport are used by the world's leading
designers and publishers to produce everything from newsletters, ads, and brochures to product packaging,
catalogs, magazines, and newspapers. QuarkXPress is an integrated publishing package that combines expert type,
layout, color, and graphics-handling features with professional illustration tools, word processing, and
sophisticated prepress functions -- all in one application. Precise typography and layout tools give you an
unparalleled design control and command over every aspect of your document, from conception to output.

 License : Demo, $799 
 Author/Publisher : Quark
 Modification Date : January 26, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 723 MB - 8.02 demo/updater

 Home Page 

 QX-Tools Pro 7.0.3 

Increase your efficiency and
creativity in QuarkXPress with QX-Tools Pro's valuable collection of
must-have XTensions for creative professionals of any level.
 Unleash the hidden powers of QuarkXPress with interactive palettes and
hundreds of commands and customized shortcuts
 Simplify everyday tasks with 12 must-have XTensions
 Convenient access to all your QuarkXPress shortcuts from one, easily searchable palette
 Resize groups of objects with flexible precision and the ability to undo
 Collect and FTP files in one, easy step
 View and navigate multi-spread documents quickly using thumbnail previews

 License : Demo, $160
 Author/Publisher : onOne Software
 Modification Date : September 24, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher, QuarkXPress 7.0.1 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 14.8 MB

 Home Page 

 Ragtime 6.5 

RagTime is a Desktop Publishing program with an Office Suite included!
 Word processing, spreadsheet, graphs, slide shows, pictures, drawing, movies, pictures & sound.
 Use it for newsletters, reports, DTP, school yearbooks and newspapers.
 Interactive tutorial built with RagTime
 RagTime Solo is a non-commercial version of RagTime.
 Same as commercial version except single user only and only one copy will open on a network.
 There is a dialog when you start RagTime Solo that asks to acknowledge it is for non-commercial use.

 License : Demo, $695
 Author/Publisher : RagTime GmbH
 Modification Date : April 3, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 358 MB - 6.5 Demo

 Download 
File Size: 43.9 MB - 6.5 Update - Required for Mac OS X 10.6 - September 9, 2009

 Home Page 

 Ready, Set, Go! 7.7.7 

Ready,Set,Go! is publishing made simple. 
It's simple because Ready,Set,Go! gives you all the tools you need to create printed pages - grids, guides,
drawing tools, color support, tints, arrows, graphic file import filters and the most powerful typographic
word processor on the market today.

 License : Demo, $175
 Author/Publisher : Diwan
 Modification Date : March 28, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 10.4 MB - Demo

 Updates Page 

 Home Page 

 Scribus 1.3.3.8 

Scribus is an open-source program that brings award-winning professional page layout to
Linux/Unix, MacOS X, OS/2 and Windows desktops with a combination of "press-ready" output
and new approaches to page layout. Underneath the modern and user friendly interface,
Scribus supports professional publishing features, such as CMYK color, separations, ICC
color management and versatile PDF creation.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Scribus.net
 Modification Date : February 27, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 39.3 MB - Scribus 1.3.3.8

 Download 
File Size: 2.6 MB - Ghostscript 8.50 - must be copied to the folder /Library/Frameworks/ to work

 Home Page 

 Snail Mail 1.7 

Envelope printing application for use with the Mac OS X Address Book database.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Nixanz
 Modification Date : August 1, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 532 Kb

 Home Page 

 Snapshot 2.1 

Snapshot brings the power of a photo lab to you computer. Printing your digital images has
never been easier. You have full control over the print size and how you want to crop and
frame your picture. Add borders and speech bubbles for more interesting and personal
prints. Multiple layout styles allow you to get just the prints you want - and full print
previews make wasted paper a thing of the past!

 License : Shareware, $25
 Author/Publisher : LateNiteSoft
 Modification Date : October 13, 20078
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 6.8 MB

 Home Page 

 SOHO Labels 4.0.1 

SOHO Labels & Envelopes is the fastest way to design and print professional labels and
envelopes on your Macintosh. Its next generation design eliminates the headaches typically
associated with label and envelope printing so you can focus on your business.

 License : Shareware, $30
 Author/Publisher : Chronos
 Modification Date : February 13, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 84.0 MB

 Home Page 

 Swift Publisher 2.3.1 

Swift Publisher is an excellent Macintosh page layout application for
designing and printing colorful flyers, newsletters, brochures,
letterheads, etc. Great choice of templates inspires your creativity and
a variety of editing tools lets you quickly apply it.

 License : Shareware, $35
 Author/Publisher : BeLight Software
 Modification Date : September 25, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 38.3 MB

 Home Page 

 Trapeze 1.3.1 

Trapeze is a drag-and-drop text extraction utility that converts PDF
files to editable HTML, RTF, ASCII or plain text.

Trapeze puts you in control over the conversion process, with options
for white space stripping, paragraph rewrapping and page break marking.
Additional features include advanced text encoding, targeted RTF
optimization (TextEdit or Microsoft Word), and support for encrypted
(password protected) PDF.

Trapeze's powerful reformatting engine is capable of standard HTML
conversion, high quality RTF rendering and faithful plain text
reproduction; a must for users interested in PDF web publishing,
content data mining or repurposing.

 License : Demo, $30
 Author/Publisher : Mesa Dynamics, LLC
 Modification Date : September 1, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 624 Kb

 Home Page 

 XPert Tools Pro 2.2 

Designed for both novice and advanced users, the seamless interface of
this XTensions&reg; software mirrors the look and feel of QuarkXPress. If
you use QuarkXPress, then you already know how to use these tools. 
The latest version of this XTensions software package supports item
opacity settings, EPS output styles, and additional XPert Toolbar
commands.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Quark
 Modification Date : March 29, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher, QuarkXPress 7.1 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 39.6 MB - Demo

 Home Page 

 Denotes Mac OS X Intel Native 
 Denotes Mac OS X Intel & PPC Native 
 Denotes Mac OS X PPC Native 
 Denotes Mac OS 8/9 PPC Native 
 Denotes Mac OS 680x0 Native 
 Denotes Non-OS Specific Code 

 Back to the Main Page of Pure Mac