Pure Mac: Handhelds - Software for Macintosh 

 Handhelds 

 Web 

 Pure-Mac.com 

 Blackberry 
 iPod 
 Mobile Phones 
 Newton 
 Palm 
 PSP 
 Windows CE 
 Zaurus 

 Missing Sync for Blackberry 
 PocketMac for BlackBerry 

 Floola 
 HandBrake Lite 
 iPDA 
 iPodDisk 
 iPod.iTunes 
 iPod Notes 
 iSquint 
 iWorkout for iPod 
 MoviesForMyPod 
 PodWorks 
 Senuti 
 ViddyUp 
 Video2Go 
 YamiPod 
 VisualHub 

 BluePhoneElite 
 GSM Remote 
 OnSync 
 PhoneAgent 
 PhoneDirector 
 SoonR 

 Newton Connection 
 NewTen 
 NewtSync 

 MAL Conduit 
 Missing Sync for Palm OS 
 Palm Desktop 
 Palm Encoding Setup 
 Sync Buddy 

 Missing Sync for Sony PSP 
 PDF2PSP 
 iPSP 
 PSPWare 

 The Missing Sync for Windows Mobile 
 PocketMac Pro 

 AJZaurusUSB 
 ZMacSync 

 Pure Mac 
 Education 
 Accessibility 
 Astronomy 
 Calculators & Math 
 Collections 
 Health 
 Hobbies & Crafts 
 Kid Stuff 
 Language 
 Parental Control 
 Recipes 
 Science 
 Teaching Aids 
 Typing 

 Games 
 Action 
 Arcade 
 Board 
 Card 
 Emulators 
 Flight Sims 
 Frivolous 
 Game Utilities 
 MMOG 
 Puzzle 
 RPG 
 Sports & Racing 
 Strategy 
 Word 

 Internet 
 Collaboration 
 Distributed Computing 
 Download Managers 
 Email 
 FTP 
 Internet Utilities 
 iPhone 
 IRC & IM 
 Online Games 
 Peer-to-Peer 
 Remote Access 
 Usenet 
 Video Conferencing 
 VoIP 

 Multimedia 
 Audio 
 CAD 
 Charts 
 DTP 
 Ebook 
 Font Utilities 
 Graphics 
 iTunes & MP3 
 Media Center 
 Music 
 Photoshop Plug-ins 
 Presentation 
 3D & Animation 
 Screen Capture 
 Video 

 System 
 Alternative OS 
 Classic Updates 
 Command Line 
 Contextual Menus 
 CSMs 
 Drivers 
 Face-Lift 
 Launchers 
 Olden 
 Screen Savers 
 Security 
 System Enhancements 
 Virus 
 Widgets 
 X11 

 Utilities 
 Backup 
 Compression 
 Cross-Platform 
 Database 
 Diagnostics 
 Disk & File 
 Finance 
 Handhelds 
 Network 
 PIMs 
 Programming 
 Spreadsheets 
 Telephony 
 Text Editors 
 Time 

 WWW 
 Auctions 
 Browsers 
 Browser Enhancements 
 Page Rippers 
 RSS & Podcasting 
 Site Management 
 Stock Tickers 
 Weather 
 Web Cams 
 Web Editors 
 Web Graphics 
 Web Search 
 Web Server 
 Web Services 
 Web 2.0 

 Extension Key 
 Pure Picks 
 Software Index 

 AJZaurusUSB 0.5.3 

This is an USB driver for MacOS X to connect handheld devices like the
Sharp Zaurus, Yopy, iPAQ, Motorola Linux phones, OpenMoko to MacOS X as
an IP device via the USB cable. This allows to use telnet, ssh, SMB etc.
to access the Zaurus.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : DSITRI
 Modification Date : August 10, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.0 MB

 Home Page 

 BluePhoneElite 2.0.5 

BluePhoneElite extends the calling features of your cell phone to OS X
with a simple yet powerful interface. Dial, answer, hang up and hold
calls with the touch of a button. Both incoming and outgoing calls are
saved to a call log that includes the time, date and duration of the
call, the phone that was used, and whether the call was answered, missed
or ignored. You can even add notes to a call and export it to Apple's
Address Book or iCal.
 Call Features
 Dial and answer calls from your desktop
 Log calls with time, duration, caller and notes
 Display caller ID using your phone's phone book or Apple's Address Book
 Pause iTunes and DVD Player or set iChat away message when a call is in progress
 Customize a variety of visual and aural call notifications
 Export calls to iCal, Address Book or external files
 Trigger AppleScripts for different call events
 SMS Features
 Send and receive messages using email-style SMS Center or SMS Chat
 Archive SMS to disk using hierarchical folders
 Pop-up incoming SMS on-screen
 Export SMS to iCal, Address Book or external files
 Trigger AppleScripts for different SMS events
 Other Features
 Proximity detection controls iTunes, iChat, DVD Player and the screen saver
 Display battery and signal strength, power source and network name in the menu bar
 Power saving option disconnects phones when power is running low
 Customizable interface options like dock visibility, menu bar visibility and font sizes

 License : Shareware, $20
 Author/Publisher : Mira Software
 Modification Date : January 7, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 6.0 MB

 Home Page 

 Floola 2.4 

Floola is a freeware application to efficiently manage your iPod or your
Motorola mobile phone (any model supporting iTunes). It's a standalone
application that can be run directly from your iPod and needs no
installation under Linux, Mac OS X and Windows (Windows Vista is
supported). Floola supports all most common used features including
podcasts and smart playlists! Take a look at the feature list to find
out what it can do and feel free to suggest anything that might be
missing.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Tomas Camin
 Modification Date : January 2, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.1 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 11.7 MB

 Home Page 

 GSM Remote 1.6.2 

What are the main features?
 Read all available standard phonebooks
 Sending long SMS via phone
 Export & Backup all standard phonebooks
 Editing of the SIM and mobile phonebook is a three click task.
 Very powerful but easy to use import function
 Drag & Drop contacts via vCard standard
 Extensive use of Balloon help
 Support for a wide range of different mobile phones

 License : Shareware, $10
 Author/Publisher : Alexander Traud
 Modification Date : March 19, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.1 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 9.1 MB

 Home Page 

 Handbrake Lite 1.1 

HandBrake Lite is a horribly-mangled abomination of HandBrake, jettisoning its non-crucial
features with the one-track goal of creating iPod-sized movies from DVDs.

Features:
 You only really need to click two buttons to rip a DVD for iPod. It's as easy as that.
 Less stuff to read, and fewer confusing words.
 All videos are automatically resized to 320px wide. Widescreen movies have any black bars properly cropped before conversion.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Tyler Lock
 Modification Date : January 25, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 4.3 MB

 Home Page 

 iPDA 4.0.3 

Who needs a PDA when you have an iPod? Transfer your PIM data to your iPod so it's
available whenever you need it; iPDA supports transferring information from Entourage,
Stickies, Mail, Address Book and iCal, and web based calendaring systems such as Google
Calendar. You can transfer Word, PDF, Pages, RTF and text documents for quick access and
reading on the go. You can even download RSS feeds, weather forecasts and news headlines
directly to your iPod.

 License : Shareware, $20
 Author/Publisher : ZappTek
 Modification Date : January 4, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.1

 Home Page 

 iPodDisk 1.3 

In short, it's just another tool that enables you to copy your own music
from your iPod.

iPodDisk is designed to make it easy and intuitive to copy music off
iPod; it enables you to do so within the Finder, or whatever application
that can read files.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Isaac Huang
 Modification Date : February 17, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.6 MB

 Home Page 

 iPod.iTunes 3.7.7 

Unlike other iPod copy tools, iPod.iTunes provides real synchronization
of MP3, AAC, Protected AAC and Audible tracks and even playlists from
your iPod(s) to your Mac(s). iPod.iTunes saves your time because it
automatically only copies those tracks which are missing in the iTunes
library, excluding duplicates. If you wish, it provides also an option
to show a list of tracks which are not in iTunes and to copy only
desired tracks from that list.

 License : Shareware, $40
 Author/Publisher : crispSofties
 Modification Date : January 12, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 804 Kb

 Home Page 

 iPod Notes 1.0.26 

Did you know that you can store and read up to 1000 text notes with your iPod?
iPod Notes is a freeware application for Mac OS X made to manage the notes of your iPod. iPod Notes let's you create and organize any note you want to have in your iPod. You can paste text in, drag text from other applications, drop it as a text file from the Finder or, of course, write it yourself with the keyboard of your Mac.

We created this little freeware application to thank the Mac community for its ten years support.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Apimac
 Modification Date : November 28, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 5.3 MB

 Home Page 

 iPSP 3.1 

Unlike some other tools, iPSP was built specifically for total PSP
Mulitmedia Management from the ground up. When iPSP is running, if a PSP
is plugged in* to your Mac, it automatically backs up your PSP Saved
Game data into well organized Date Stamped folders in your Library
folder. Using the Gamesaves Manager, you can browse, restore or delete
saved games or transfer between PSPs.

For music and photos, iPSP works with apps you already know, iTunes and
iPhoto. iPSP reads your Music or Photo Library. Select any Album or
playist you want and with 1 click, iPSP goes to work converting and
transferring your media.

iPSP will automatically copy your selections to your PSP converting and
optimizing as needed on the fly. It requires no settings or interaction
from you...it Just Works. Stop struggling with counter-intuitive
"me-too" apps that either put you on training wheels or require a degree
to get the job done...when you're done gaming, start enjoying your PSP a
little bit more with iPSP.

Video, unlike audio and photos can take a long time to proccess. With
iPSP, you can put the video you'd like to view on your PSP into a
conversion queue, specify all the options you'd like for each clip, and
run them all. iPSP lets you know when they are ready to go!

 License : Shareware, $20
 Author/Publisher : Kai Softronics
 Modification Date : October 25, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 16.7 MB

 Home Page 

 iSquint 1.5.1 

iSquint is an iPod video conversion app for Mac OS X. 
 It's many times faster than QuickTime Pro, works with almost all popular video formats, and it's infinitely free-er.
 It's also really easy.
 Just drag in your file, and click Start.
 You can also choose "TV" or "iPod" size, set your quality, or even go all-out by playing in the Advanced drawer.
 On a 1GHz G4, iSquint can convert most video files to iPod-screen-sized videos in realtime. 
 Features:
 - Fast MPEG-4 and H.264 conversion from almost every popular video format, from 3GP to XviD. 
 - QuickTime Pro and DivX codec not required.
 - DivX/XviD AVIs, all forms of MPEG video, and many other formats QuickTime chokes on are supported.
 - Batch Processing of multiple files. Save in-place, or to a different folder.
 - Automatic aspect ratio detection. Anamorphic MPEG-2 and HDV detected too.
 - Quality slider. Leave it as is to trust me, mess with it if you know better, or completely ignore it and play with the...
 - Advanced settings drawer. Change every aspect of the conversion process.
 - Just a few of the supported formats: .mov .mp4 .avi .dv .mpg .vob .3gp .asf .wmv .flv .m4v

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Tyler Loch
 Modification Date : December 12, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 5.3 MB

 Home Page 

 iWorkout for iPod 1.9.1 

Do you want a personal trainer in your pocket? You've got it with iWorkout for iPod. We've
added content from some of the best certified fitness experts in the industry to give you
the ultimate fitness guide available for iPod. This new version of iWorkout takes full
advantage of all of your iPod's capabilities.
 Give yourself:
 - 101 workout videos
 - Trainer tips
 - Illustrated fitness guides
 - Nutrition & dieting essentials
 - Exercise metronomes to time your reps
 - Fitness charts
 - Workout routines for every body region
 - Many more features

 License : Shareware, $20
 Author/Publisher : Helmes Innovations
 Modification Date : December 15, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher and an iPod

 Download 
File Size: 75.6 MB

 Home Page 

 MAL Conduit 1.0.4 

MAL Conduit is a Mac OS X conduit for AvantGo. It is freeware and open source.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Thomas Brown
 Modification Date : November 27, 2003
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.0 MB

 Home Page 

 Missing Sync for Blackberry 1.0.3 

The Missing Sync for BlackBerry is built on the same technology that has garnered 4.5-mice
ratings from Macworld magazine. It's built to be reliable, so that you can count on your
information successfully making the round trip between your Mac and BlackBerry handset.

 License : Updater, $40
 Author/Publisher : Mark/Space, Inc.
 Modification Date : October 25, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4.8 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 15.3 MB

 Home Page 

 Missing Sync for Palm OS 6.0.2 

With support for new Sync Services technology in Mac OS X 10.4 Tiger,
Address Book and iCal data synchronization is greatly improved. Now
calendar categories, multiple addresses, Birthdays, IM addresses and
other fields are synchronized. There's synchronization for iTunes
playlists and iPhoto albums, and photos taken with camera-enabled
devices can be sent right to iPhoto. Mac/Palm sync has never been this
good.

 License : Update, $40
 Author/Publisher : Mark/Space, Inc.
 Modification Date : December 20 20, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4.9 or higher including Mac OS X 10.5.x - Palm OS 4 or Palm OS 5

 Download 
File Size: 40.0 MB - 6.0.2 Updater

 Home Page 

 Missing Sync for Sony PSP 1.0.3 

The Sony Playstation Portable may very well be the coolest mobile device in existence. It
lets you play great games, watch full-screen video and sports one of the best mobile web
browsers out there. That's nice and all, but it's capable of so much more! The Missing
Sync for Sony PSP turns your PSP into a killer mobile media and information center by
downloading web sites, bookmarks, videos, and important life information, such as your
contacts, notes, tasks and calendar events, from your Mac. Easily. Automatically. With
style. Read on to learn more.

 License : Demo, $30
 Author/Publisher : Mark/Space, Inc.
 Modification Date : November 20, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4.8 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 22.1 MB

 Home Page 

 Missing Sync for Windows Mobile 4.0.2 

The Missing Sync for Windows Mobile provides Mac synchronization for
Pocket PC and Smartphone devices from Dell, HP, i-Mate, Motorola,
Orange, Samsung and others. The Missing Sync for Windows Mobile includes
support for Mac OS X Tiger's Sync Services, Entourage synchronization
and an all-new architecture that allows third-party developers to create
plugins that add new capabilities.

 License : Update, $40
 Author/Publisher : Mark/Space, Inc.
 Modification Date : December 13, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4.8 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 38.4 MB

 Home Page 

 MoviesForMyPod 1.11 

Convert QuickTime movies to mv4 or H264 with a 320x240 aspect ratio for
iPod compatiblity.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Digigami
 Modification Date : August 31, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.9 MB

 Home Page 

 NewTen 1.5.1 

NewTen provides Newton connectivity for Mac OS X. It allows you to
install packages on a Newton MessagePad from a Mac OS X computer over a
serial connection, without having to use any Classic applications.

At this time, NewTen supports package installation only, not
backup/restore, etc.. NewTen does not currently support ethernet or
infrared connections.

NewTen supports any USB serial adapter that installs a driver into Mac
OS X's "/dev" directory, such as the KeySpan TwinSerial USA-28X. The
built-in serial port on some Macs is also supported.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Steven Frank
 Modification Date : January 20, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 141 Kb

 Home Page 

 Newton Connection 1.1 build 27 

Newton Connection allows you to backup your Newton data to your Mac desktop, import and
export Dates, Names, Notes and NewtonWorks, install packages and use your Mac desktop
keyboard to enter text on your Newton device. In fact, most of the functions provided by
the Newton Connection Utilities, but without the need for the Classic environment.

Newton Connection is a work in progress, and the version available here is incomplete. In
particular, it does not sync yet!

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Newton Research
 Modification Date : June 13, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher - Does not work with Intel Macs

 Download 
File Size: 6.6 MB

 Home Page 

 NewtSync 0.3m 

This application synchronizes data from your Newton with Mac OS X 10.2
(Jaguar). Open API allows developers to write plug-ins to sync more
applications.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : everchanging
 Modification Date : October 26, 2003
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 2.5 MB

 Home Page 

 OnSync 1.17 

A mobile phone's contacts synchronizer for MacOS X.
 Helps you to sync your contacts between a mobile phone and MacOS X Address Book, Microsoft Entourage, Eudora, Now Contact and Palm Desktop.
 Recognizes mobile phones connected to your Mac via: serial cable, usb (with the appropriate adapter),infrared and bluetooth.
 Copies contacts copy by drag and drop.
 Full undo / redo.
 Configurable format of copied contacts.
 Can delete contacts from the mobile phone.
 Can relocate a number on your mobile
 Supports mobile phones equipped with an internal GSM modem and some LG and Motorola phones, future version will support more kind of phones.
 Works with Greek, Russian, Arabic and other character sets (with some limitations, give a look to the program help for details).

 License : Shareware, $12
 Author/Publisher : Antonio Ferraioli
 Modification Date : August 31, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 4.8 MB

 Home Page 

 Palm Desktop 4.2.1rd 

Palm Desktop is a Date Book, To Do List, Address Book, and more. It can
be used as a stand-alone application, or to view, sort, find, edit, back
up, and add applications to your Palm device. HotSync Manager is the
software that controls synchronization between your Mac and your Palm
device. More details below.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Palm Computing
 Modification Date : September 9, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X

 Download 
File Size: 16.7 MB

 Home Page 

 Palm Encoding Setup 1.9.22 

Do you write on the Mac and the Palm in your language and need your data
to be transferred correctly? Does your Palm display "String is
unprintable" instead of important information? Would you like to read
text from your Mac on your Palm?

With Palm Encoding Setup and Palm Doc Converter you will finally be able
to correctly synchronize data with national characters between your Palm
and Mac.

 License : Shareware, $12
 Author/Publisher : Loki Software
 Modification Date : November 19, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 480 Kb

 Home Page 

 PDF 2 PSP 1.6 

PDF 2 PSP is a simple tool for converting PDF documents and print outs
into JPEG images suitable for displaying on the Sony PSP handheld game
console. This allows you to download e-books, game manuals, album
liners, etcetera to your PSP. Once they're on your PSP, you can read
them anywhere - on the bus, at your desk, or on your couch.

PDF 2 PSP works best when used with a PSP synchronization tool such as
PSPWare but it can also be used as a stand-alone tool.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Michael W. Heinz
 Modification Date : August 5, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 128 Kb

 Home Page 

 PhoneAgent 1.4.3 

For Apple Macintosh and Sony Ericsson Sony Ericsson T610, T616, T630, T637, Z600, K700i, K750i, K790i, K800i, W800i, W880ii
 phonebook management (extended phonebook from the phone memory is supported - 5 numbers, 2 texts, email and a person's picture for T610 series - 5 numbers, 2 texts, email, web address, postal address and a note for K700 series) - editing, uploading, deleting, backup, export, import
 SMS management - reading from the phone, sending, replying, forwarding, deleting, flash SMS)
 creating MMS messages and uploading them to the phone
 creating and editing own themes and uploading them to the phone
 downloading pictures, sounds and themes from the phone
 sending pictures, sounds, games, themes and other files directly to the phone
 editing phone Wap bookmarks
 writing notes and uploading them to the phone
 Bluetooth connection

 License : Shareware, $30
 Author/Publisher : MacMedia
 Modification Date : October 28, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 18.6 MB

 Home Page 

 PhoneDirector 1.2.5 

For Apple Macintosh and Nokia 6230, 6230i, 6233, 6234, 7280, 7380, 8800
 phonebook management (extended phonebook supported - 5 numbers and 5 texts) - editing, uploading, deleting, backup, export, import
 SMS management - text and picture SMS (reading from the phone, sending, replying, forwarding, deleting, export, delivery reports, flash SMS)
 downloading and uploading pictures, sounds and videos from/to the phone
 adding, editing, export and import of calendar and To-Do events
 editing phone Wap bookmarks
 uploading Java applications to the phone
 setting phone radio channels from the computer
 writing notes and uploading them to the phone
 Bluetooth connection

 License : Shareware, $30
 Author/Publisher : MacMedia
 Modification Date : October 28, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 17.0 MB

 Home Page 

 PocketMac for BlackBerry 4.0.20 

Now you can dependably and stably sync your BlackBerry handheld with
your Mac. PocketMac For BlackBerry is the first program to allow Mac
users to sync their crucial data between their BlackBerry and Entourage,
Address Book, iCal, Now Contact, Now Up-To-Date, and even Stickies. And
it's fully integrated with iSync as well!

 License : Demo, $30
 Author/Publisher : Information Appliance Associates
 Modification Date : March 30, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 24.3 MB - 4.0.20 Updater - Licensed users only

 Home Page 

 PocketMac Pro 3.53 

Synchronize...
 Microsoft Entourage 
 iCal Calendar/Tasks
 Address Book Contacts
 Mail.app email
 Now Contact (requires Now Contact)
 Microsoft Word/Excel
 The simplicity and elegance you've come to love in the Mac can now
be yours in a Pocket PC with the new PocketMac&reg; Pro 3.0 software. And,
it can be yours for just 19% of the cost of most Pocket PCs. You can
even use your Pocket PC with both a Mac and Windows PC (if you must).

 License : Demo, $42
 Author/Publisher : Information Appliance Associates
 Modification Date : July 14, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 13.7 MB - 3.53 updater

 Home Page 

 PodWorks 2.9.2 

PodWorks is a Mac OS X (Cocoa) application that compensates for the
iPod's only downside: Apple only allows you to copy songs to your iPod.
If you have two Macs and want to use your iPod to transfer music from
one to the other, or you only store your MP3s on your iPod and need to
copy them back onto your hard drive after a disk failure, you are out of
luck! This is where PodWorks comes in: it allows you to copy songs from
any Mac iPod to any Mac running OS X 10.2 or higher.

 License : Shareware, $8
 Author/Publisher : Buzz Andersen
 Modification Date : September 4, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 440 Kb

 Home Page 

 PSPWare 2.5.2 

PSPWare integrates your Sony PSP (PlayStation Portable) with your Mac,
simply, effectively and non-intrusively!

We're really quite modest, but we've got to say PSPWare is the best
integration software for the PSP available on the market! Give it a try,
we are certain that you will agree.

Sync your music, movies and photos and back up your game saves with ease
using PSPWare. You specify what you want synced and PSPWare takes care
of the rest automatically, day-to-day, syncing optimally as you would
expect, without taking up your precious time!

 License : Shareware, $15
 Author/Publisher : Nullriver Software
 Modification Date : December 5, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 2.9 MB

 Home Page 

 Senuti 0.50 

Senuti is a simple utility that makes transferring songs from an iPod to your computer quick and easy. Features include:
 iTunesDB. What? That's right, iTunesDB. Senuti reads a hidden file on your iPod in order to get all of the information quickly and accurately.
 Playlists. Want to see the playlists on your iPod, will that help you find the music you want to copy? Done.
 Listen. What was that song I wanted to copy? I know how it goes, but I don't know the title. Great! Listen to your music on your iPod right from Senuti. When you find the song, copy it! Search. Senuti would be worthless if you couldn't find what you wanted to copy quickly, so searching is built in.
 Organization. Senuti will organize your music as it gets copied back to your computer. That is only if you want it organized, of course.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Whitney Young
 Modification Date : October 19, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 4.3 MB 0.50

 Download 
File Size: 5.0 MB 0.50.2b1 - January 10, 2008 - if you get a .bz extension, remove it

 Home Page 

 SoonR 1.1.8 

SoonR, the global leader in delivering mobile access to computer files
and applications, announced the SoonR mobile AJAX-enabled interface
supports accessing files and applications including mail on a Mac or PC
from Apple's iPhone.

SoonR allows you to access your Macintosh
from your data-enabled mobile phone. You can view shared folders, use
Spotlight search, and even use Skype from your mobile phone.

SoonR basic accounts are free. Users can access photos, files, and
documents and even share them with others.

Upcoming premium services will give you:
 * Guaranteed access even when the host computers are turned off!
 * Encrypted backup of your critical data
 * International calling for pennies a minute
 Free accounts have limited SMS messaging.
Service providers usually have an additional charge for
SMS messages. Please check with your provider for details.
 SoonR is currently in Beta but we will be introducing premium services in the near future.

 License : Freeware (see above)
 Author/Publisher : SoonR
 Modification Date : July 19, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher and a web-enabled mobile phone with data service

 Download 
File Size: 1.8 MB

 Home Page 

 Sync Buddy 2.1 

Sync Buddy is a backup, install and photo management tool for Mac OS X
users with Palm OS handhelds. Providing worry-free backups, installs and
pictures management, Sync Buddy lets you reclaim control of your
handheld. It complements the standard synchronization by giving you
direct access to your handheld's contents.

 License : Shareware, $25
 Author/Publisher : Florent Pillet
 Modification Date : April 6, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 5.4 MB

 Home Page 

 ViddyUp 1.8.2 

ViddyUp! makes moving your video clips to iPod a cinch! Just drag your
clips to the ViddyUp! window, tweak a setting or two (if you want), then
let ViddyUp! get to work. iPod-compatible versions of each clip show up
in a special playlist in iTunes, ready for you to synchronize with your
iPod. ViddyUp! is faster than QuickTime Pro's Movie to iPod (320x240)
option, easily handles dozens of files with its batch processing mode,
and even works with MPEG muxed audio. And with the Custom settings
option, it's not just for iPod. Create MPEG-4 and H.264 files for iPod,
iTunes, Podcasts or the Web. It's up to you.

 License : Shareware, $10
 Author/Publisher : Splasm Software
 Modification Date : October 26, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 3.9 MB

 Home Page 

 Video2Go 1.6.3 

Video2Go makes for comfortable converting of your movies to the new
iPod with video functionality.

The new iPod of the fifth generation allows you to store and, of course,
play back up to 150 hours of video material with a screen resolution of
320 pixels wide by 240 pixels high. Video2Go was especially devised for
the optimal conversion of a movie to this size.

 License : Shareware, $10
 Author/Publisher : OnlyMac Software
 Modification Date : May 3, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher, QuickTime 7.0.3 and iTunes 6.0.1 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 3.8 MB

 Home Page 

 VisualHub 1.30 

Fast conversion from nearly every video format to iPod, PSP, DV, DVD, Tivo, AVI, MP4, WMV, MPEG and Flash.

Converting a bunch of AVI files to a DVD shouldn't require a Computer
Science degree.

Getting movies from your digital camera to your iPod shouldn't take
hours.

Wading through a sea of video formats shouldn't pull you under.

VisualHub bridges the gap between numerous complicated video formatting
standards, and people that just want to get the job done - just what you
would expect from the Mac.

If you're looking for something a little more flexible, VisualHub's up
for that challenge too. An extensive Advanced panel lets you change all
pre-set aspects of encoding...and then some.

Based on the popular, award-winning "iSquint" conversion software for
iPods. If you've used iSquint, you already know how to use VisualHub. If
you've never used iSquint, you won't have a lot of catching up to do
anyway.

 License : Shareware, $24
 Author/Publisher : Techspansion
 Modification Date : December 12, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 5.2 MB

 Home Page 

 YamiPod 1.7 

YamiPod is a freeware application to efficiently manage your iPod under
Mac OS X, Windows and Linux. It can be run directly from your iPod and
needs no installation. Take a look at the feature list to find out what
it can do and feel free to suggest anything that might be missing.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Tomas Camin
 Modification Date : November 16, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 4.4 MB

 Home Page 

 ZMacSync 2.3.2 

ZMacSync is a tool to synchronize the Sharp Zaurus Personal Information
with the standard Communication suite of the Apple Macintosh (MacOS X).
This includes the Address Book, iCal calendars and to-do lists, as well
as Stickies (notes) and the Zaurus system clock. Synchronization is
optimized so that only records are interchanged that are added, modified
or deleted with as low data transformation loss as possible.

 License : Shareware, $20
 Author/Publisher : DSITRI
 Modification Date : December 2, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: G.o MB

 Home Page 

 Denotes Mac OS X Intel Native 
 Denotes Mac OS X Intel & PPC Native 
 Denotes Mac OS X PPC Native 
 Denotes Mac OS 8/9 PPC Native 
 Denotes Mac OS 680x0 Native 
 Denotes Non-OS Specific Code 

 Back to the Main Page of Pure Mac