Pure Mac: Media Center - Software for Macintosh 

 Media Center 

 Web 

 Pure-Mac.com 

 Can't find it here? Check the Video , Audio , iTunes & MP3 , or Graphics sections. 

 Apple TV 
 Central Control 
 PVR Interface 
 Audio Servers 
 Video Servers 
 Video Viewers/Recorders 

 ATVFiles 
 Television 
 AlchemyTV DVR 
 EvolutionTV 
 MyTV/x 
 EyeTV 

 CenterStage 
 Connect360 
 EyeConnect 
 EyeHome 
 Front Row 
 Front Row Enabler 
 GenieCommands 
 iTheater 
 MediaCentral 
 mMedia 
 XHub Media Center 

 DVArchive 
 Galleon 
 MacTF 
 TFmac 
 TFmac 5000 
 TiVoDecode Manager 
 TiVo Decoder 
 TiVo Desktop 
 TiVoTool 
 Remote Control 
 Front Row 
 Remote Buddy 
 Romeo 
 Salling Clicker 

 Airfoil 
 Detour 
 Jack OS X 
 netTunes 
 Nicecast 
 SHOUTcast 

 CyTV 
 QuickTime Broadcaster 
 Darwin Streaming Server 
 Wirecast 

 BTV 
 iRecord 
 Vidi 
 myVCR 

 Apple TV 
 iPhone 
 iTunes 

 Pure Mac 
 Education 
 Accessibility 
 Astronomy 
 Calculators & Math 
 Collections 
 Health 
 Hobbies & Crafts 
 Kid Stuff 
 Language 
 Parental Control 
 Recipes 
 Science 
 Teaching Aids 
 Typing 

 Games 
 Action 
 Arcade 
 Board 
 Card 
 Emulators 
 Flight Sims 
 Frivolous 
 Game Utilities 
 MMOG 
 Puzzle 
 RPG 
 Sports & Racing 
 Strategy 
 Word 

 Internet 
 Collaboration 
 Distributed Computing 
 Download Managers 
 Email 
 FTP 
 Internet Utilities 
 iPhone 
 IRC & IM 
 Online Games 
 Peer-to-Peer 
 Remote Access 
 Usenet 
 Video Conferencing 
 VoIP 

 Multimedia 
 Audio 
 CAD 
 Charts 
 DTP 
 Ebook 
 Font Utilities 
 Graphics 
 iTunes & MP3 
 Media Center 
 Music 
 Photoshop Plug-ins 
 Presentation 
 3D & Animation 
 Screen Capture 
 Video 

 System 
 Alternative OS 
 Classic Updates 
 Command Line 
 Contextual Menus 
 CSMs 
 Drivers 
 Face-Lift 
 Launchers 
 Olden 
 Screen Savers 
 Security 
 System Enhancements 
 Virus 
 Widgets 
 X11 

 Utilities 
 Backup 
 Compression 
 Cross-Platform 
 Database 
 Diagnostics 
 Disk & File 
 Finance 
 Handhelds 
 Network 
 PIMs 
 Programming 
 Spreadsheets 
 Telephony 
 Text Editors 
 Time 

 WWW 
 Auctions 
 Browsers 
 Browser Enhancements 
 Page Rippers 
 RSS & Podcasting 
 Site Management 
 Stock Tickers 
 Weather 
 Web Cams 
 Web Editors 
 Web Graphics 
 Web Search 
 Web Server 
 Web Services 
 Web 2.0 

 Extension Key 
 Pure Picks 
 Software Index 

 Airfoil 3.0.1 

Airfoil lets you send any audio to remote speakers attached to your
AirPort Express. AirPort Express - It's not just for iTunes anymore.

With Airfoil, you can send audio from any application to your AirPort
Express in just three easy steps.

Step 1) Select the application whose audio you want to transmit, in the
Audio Source area.

Step 2) Select the desired AirPort Express device from the Remote
Speakers list.

Step 3) Click Transmit. That's it!

Once you do this, any audio from the audio source will play out through
your remote speakers. Use Airfoil to play audio from RealPlayer, Windows
Media Player, Safari, and almost any other application right through
your AirPort Express. Give your audio wings, with Airfoil.

 License : Shareware, $25
 Author/Publisher : Rogue Amoeba Software
 Modification Date : January 14, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 9.5 MB

 Home Page 

 AlchemyTV DVR 2.5.1 

Watch and record TV on your Mac with AlchemyTV DVR!

Schedule your recordings in a few easy steps with TitanTV or iCal, store
them on your hard drive or burn them to VCD or DVD. Thanks to its tight
integration with QuickTime, AlchemyTV DVR gives you a full range of
capture options, including real-time MPEG-4 recording!

AlchemyTV DVR delivers a clean and sharp picture, ideal for full size TV
viewing and video capture.

Best of all, DVR is supplied complete with remote control for maximum
viewing pleasure!

 License : Update - Purchase AlchemyTV DVR for ~ $159
 Author/Publisher : Miglia Technology
 Modification Date : July 26, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 10.9 MB - AlchemyTV DVR 2.5.1 Updater

 Home Page 

 ATVFiles 0.3.2 

Simple file browser plugin for Apple TV Finder. Think XBMC, it can play video files without transcoding and syncing/streaming them.
 Please note that ATVFiles does not provide the codecs. Perian (http://perian.org) and A52Codec (http://trac.cod3r.com/a52codec/) are highly recommended to be installed to provide support for a wide variety of codecs.
 Installation
 1. Copy ATVFiles.frappliance to this folder: /System/Library/CoreServices/Finder.app/Contents/PlugIns on the Apple TV. You may want to create a symlink from there to some more convenient place.
 2. Restart Finder. The command killall Finder will kill it, and it will be automatically restarted.
 Usage
 Enter the new "Files" menu on the main menu.
 It lists files in /Users/frontrow/Movies, so mount or put your video files in that folder.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Eric Steil III
 Modification Date : June 20, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 93 Kb

 Home Page 

 BTV Pro 5.4.1 

BTV allows you to view video from any video input source, either in a window or full screen on an entire monitor. Video can be captured to disk as a standard QuickTime movie file and single frames can be saved as image files.

BTV Pro has all the features of BTV as well as many more including movie playback and editing, stop motion animation, time lapse capture, motion detection, DV stream input/output, and frame averaging.

 License : Shareware, $20 for BTV and $40 for BTV Pro
 Author/Publisher : Ben Bird
 Modification Date : April 29, 2002
 Requirements : Mac OS X

 Download 
File Size: 719 Kb - BTV

 Download 
File Size: 1114 Kb - BTV Pro

 Home Page 

 CenterStage 0.6.2 

CenterStage is on open source project to build a powerful and intuitive
media center application for the Apple Macintosh, this project was
inspired by the launch of the Mac mini, an ideal Mac to use as part of a
home theatre system.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : The CenterStage Project
 Modification Date : June 10, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 17.6 MB - CenterStage 0.6.2 with BackStage

 Home Page 

 Connect360 3.2.3 

Your Xbox 360 is capable of playing back your music and videos and
viewing your digital photos. With Connect360, your Mac's ready to share.

Connect360 automatically indexes your iTunes and iPhoto libraries and
shares them to your Xbox 360. You can then use the Xbox 360 Dashboard to
browse and play your media, organized in the exact same way that it is
on your Mac.

Connect360 supports MP3, AAC, WAV, AIFF and Apple Lossless for Music.
For Photos, Connect360 supports: JPEG, RAW, GIF, PNG, BMP and TIFF. For
video streaming, currently only WMV+WMA, H.264 and MPEG4 files are
supported (in MP4 and MOV containers).

 License : Shareware, $20
 Author/Publisher : Nullriver Software
 Modification Date : December 7, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 5.4 MB

 Home Page 

 CyTV 0.5.4 

CyTV is a streaming solution for elgato's EyeTV family of TV tuners. It
allows you to watch TV and recorded programs over a local network (wired
or wireless) or the internet. You can pause and resume live TV on the
client ("timeshift"), and you can also change channels remotely.

Supported models are EyeTV USB, 200, 300, and 400. EyeTV 410, 500, 610,
and Plextor's ConvertX (PX-TV402U) should also work. However, you can't
use CyTV with the EyeTV Wonder USB 2.0 hardware (see this blog entry by
Tom Stuart for details).

The CyTV Server requires a Mac with an EyeTV unit. On the client(s), you
can use the VideoLAN Client (VLC) media player to play the stream, so
you can watch on any platform supported by VLC (and there are many!).
The distribution also contains a special client application for Macs
that gives you more control (like watching previous recordings, skipping
back and forth, etc.).

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Andreas Junghans
 Modification Date : January 29, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 2.4 MB - 0.5.4

 Download 
File Size: 4.1 MB - 0.6 pre5 - April 5, 2006

 Home Page 

 Darwin Streaming Server 5.5.5 

Welcome to Darwin Streaming Server, the open source version of Apple's
QuickTime Streaming Server technology that allows you to send streaming
media to clients across the Internet using the industry standard RTP and
RTSP protocols. Based on the same code base as QuickTime Streaming
Server, Darwin Streaming Server provides a high level of customizability
and runs on a variety of platforms allowing you to manipulate the code
to fit your needs.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : The Open Source Community
 Modification Date : May 7, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 26.6 MB

 Download 
File Size: 70 Kb - Darwin Streaming Proxy 5.5.5

 QuickTime Streaming Server Home Page Comes with Mac OS X Server

 Darwin Streaming Server Home Page 

 Detour 1.5.5 

Technically speaking, Detour allows you to send audio to different output devices on an
application-specific basis. What does that mean exactly? It means you can...
 ...send music from iTunes to your external USB speakers and keep the annoying beeps
and blips of iChat going through your computer's built-in speaker.
 ...mute any application's sounds all together. 
 ...change the volume of some applications relative to others. Make your email client's
alerts quieter, and you'll never again be jarred from work just to receive spam.
 When you use Detour, you can choose between your speakers, headphones, built-in
speaker, iMic, MiniDisc player or anything else which the system sees as an audio output
and send it the audio from a specific application. Along the way, you can adjust the
volume as well.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Rogue Amoeba
 Modification Date : October 19, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher - Not Intel Compatible

 Download 
File Size: 1.5 MB

 Home Page 

 DVArchive 3.1 

DVArchive allows your computer to act like a "Virtual ReplayTV". You can
download shows from your ReplayTV to burn to DVD/VCD, play shows from
your ReplayTV right on your desktop (without having to download them
first) and play shows that are stored on your computer right from your
ReplayTV/TV screen. You can also search TV listing, see what upcoming
recordings on your ReplayTVs there may be and access those listings from
a web browser or GUI.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Gerald Duprey
 Modification Date : July 15, 2004
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 4.1 MB

 Home Page 

 EvolutionTV 2.7 

Featuring MPEG-2/4 and DivX hardware compression, EvolutionTV is the
most advanced digital video recorder available for your Mac.

Delivering a clean and sharp picture, EvolutionTV comes with fully
featured software enabling you to watch live TV, pause, rewind, skip
forward. At the press of a button, EvolutionTV lets you record TV,
schedule recordings, access Online TV guides and much more!

Thanks to its state of the art built-in video compression hardware,
EvolutionTV will let you store hours of TV programs on a single DVD!

With EvolutionTV, now is the time to say good-bye to your VHS recorder!

 License : Software Update, Hardware Purchase $180
 Author/Publisher : Miglia Technology
 Modification Date : October 10, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher, USB 2.0

 Download 
File Size: 15.0 MB

 Home Page 

 EyeConnect 1.5.1 

EyeConnect software enables your UPnP AV digital media device to stream
EyeTV recordings, digital photos, music and movies from your Mac onto
your TV or stereo.

EyeConnect is based on the globally trusted Universal Plug and Play
Audio/Video standard (UPnP AV) for the seamless sharing of digital
content throughout your home. Using this industry standard technology,
EyeConnect enables a broad range of UPnP AV devices to play EyeTV
recordings, digital music, video, or photo content, including iPhotos&reg;,
iTunes&reg;, and movies stored on your Macintosh. Elgato's EyeConnect
digital media streaming software addresses a rapidly growing market for
home networking solutions for the Macintosh.

Use EyeConnect in combination with your UPnP AV digital media device to
manage wired or wireless streaming of digital entertainment content
effortlessly. Digital media files remain organized as originally stored
in your Mac libraries so you can quickly find the file you want.

 License : Demo, $99
 Author/Publisher : El Gato
 Modification Date : October 31, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher, 500 MHz G4 or better

 Download 
File Size: 7.2 MB

 Download Page 

 Home Page 

 EyeHome 1.8 

EyeHome allows you to access the digital content you have stored on your
Mac - photos, music, video, movies - and enjoy it on your TV and home
entertainment system. EyeHome features an easy-to-use and
remote-controlled TV interface. From the main menu's list of "EyeTV"
recorded television, "Movies", "Music", "Pictures" and "Web", you can
simply access your library of digital content.

 License : Update - Purchase EyeHome for ~ $199
 Author/Publisher : El Gato
 Modification Date : June 1, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher, 500 MHz G4 or better, EyeHome Hardware

 Download 
File Size: 14.0 MB - 1.8 updater

 Download 
File Size: 15.3 MB - 1.7 updater

 Download Page 

 Home Page 

 EyeTV 2.5.2 

EyeTV lets you watch live TV in stunning digital quality, directly on
your Mac. Using the on-screen remote control or included infrared remote
control you can:
 - pause a program
 - instantly rewind and repeat a favorite section
 - fast forward past unwanted content 
 Record TV on your Mac and Replace your VCR 
 Schedule Programming Remotely
 Edit out Unwanted Content
 Archive and Take your TV to Go

 License : Update
 Author/Publisher : El Gato
 Modification Date : December 26, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher - All EyeTV Hardware Supported

 Download 
File Size: 46.3 MB - 2.5.2 updater

 Updates 

 Home Page 

 Front Row 2.1.2 

Sit back, relax and let Front Row start the show. Music, photos and
video. From your sofa.

The Front Row Update delivers overall improved reliability and
compatibility for browsing music, photos, and videos on your iMac.

The new Apple Remote makes it easy to navigate through all the digital
goodies you've collected and created on your iMac G5. Apple designers
simplified the average remote from 60 buttons you'll never use to just
the six buttons you really need. So you can navigate quickly and easily
through the Front Row interface to enjoy your music, video, photos and
DVDs exactly as you wish. Play. Pause. Skip. Rewind. Crank up the
volume. Whatever your pleasure, wherever you sit.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Apple
 Modification Date : January 15, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.5 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 16.8 MB

 Home Page 

 Front Row Enabler 1.3 

Thanks to the latest version from Apple, Front Row can now be installed
on any Mac running Mac OS X 10.4.5 or above. Front Row 1.2.2 corrects
issues with watching movie trailers and adds better support for song
shuffling.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Andrew Escobar
 Modification Date : September 13, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4.5 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 16 Kb

 Home Page 

 Galleon 2.2.1 

Galleon is a free open source media server for TiVo&reg; which allows you to
enjoy many kinds of content and interactive applications right on your
TV. The server runs on your home computer and organizes your media
collection so that they can be viewed on your home network. Galleon also
brings Internet content and applications to your TV.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Galleon Project
 Modification Date : February 4, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher, TiVo 7.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 24.9 MB - Galleon 2.2.1 unix source

 Download 
File Size: 138 Kb - Mac OS X Galleon Bundles 1.4.210

 Home Page 

 GenieCommands 1.01 

GenieCommands is a unique programmable software application that allows
you to control all your applications and media via simple menus, in a
theatre or lounge room environment.

The Media Center is your existing computer combined with the
GenieCommands software that powers the all-in-one entertainment center
for your entire home. Attached to your television or monitor, it allows
you to enjoy your favorite entertainment, watch DVDs, record TV or pause
TV, listen to music, share your digital photos, and more.

 License : Demo, $20
 Author/Publisher : Unique Design Systems
 Modification Date : December 12, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 39.0 MB

 Home Page 

 iRecord 0.4 

iRecord provides basic timed-recording functionality for FireWire MPEG
devices such as cable set-top boxes.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Ammesset Software
 Modification Date : November 9, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 611 Kb

 Home Page 

 iTheater 0.2 

The goal of this project is to create an application that acts as a
media center for any Macintosh computer. iTheater is an aesthetically
pleasing way to manage, play and share your photos, movies and music.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : The iTheater Group
 Modification Date : July 14, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 3.4 MB

 Home Page 

 Jack OS X 0.74 

Jack (the Jack Audio Connection Kit) is a low-latency audio server,
written originally for the GNU/Linux operating system, and now with
Mac OS X support. It can connect any number of different applications
to a single hardware audio device; it also allows applications to send
and receive audio to and from each other.

Jack is different from other audio server efforts in that it has been 
designed from the ground up to be suitable for professional audio work.
This means that it focuses on two key areas: synchronous execution of
all clients, and low latency operation.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Johnny Petrantoni
 Modification Date : May 4, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 6.3 MB

 Home Page 

 MacTF 2.0b2 

MacTF is an native Cocoa Mac OS X application that can talk to the
Topfield TF5000PVRt (and some other Topfield 5xxx models).
 Features
 Download of files, including ability to download multiple files at once.
 Upload of files, including ability to upload multiple files at once.
 Turbo mode (doubles speed of upload/download, but remote and timers are disabled).
 Deletion and renaming of files on the Topfield.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Nathan Oates
 Modification Date : December 8, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 394 Kb

 Home Page 

 MediaCentral 2.6.3 

MediaCentral turns your Mac into the ultimate home theater system. With
support for numerous audio, video, IP TV, TV, IP Radio, Games and
multimedia formats, MediaCentral brings it all together at the push of a
button.

 License : Shareware, $30
 Author/Publisher : equinux
 Modification Date : August 10, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 62.0 MB

 Home Page 

 mMedia 1.1 

Media is a multimedia center for Mac OS X. With mMedia you can easily
access and view pictures, watch movies or listen to music. You can start
watching an inserted DVD or a movie from your harddisk. You can view
pictures from your latest holidays (for e.x. as a slideshow) while
listening to your favorite music (from iTunes, harddisk or CD).

 License : Shareware, $18
 Author/Publisher : VASS Softwareentwicklung
 Modification Date : May 23, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 10.9 MB

 Home Page 

 MyTV/x 3.6.1 

Release software for myTV.PVR 
 These Drivers work with the following products: 
 myTV.PVR Requires MyTV/x v3.61+ and OS/X 10.3.8 or later 
 MyTV & MyTV/fm - All NTSC, PAL and SECAM units 
 MyTV2GO & MyTV2GO/fm All NTSC PAL & SECAM* units 
 MyCapture II 
 MyVideo (Video Capture and Viewing only - no video out) 
 MyTV/x 3.61 works with OS/X 10.3.8+ and 10.4.+ 
Installers for older versions of OS included for convience of non-pvr product users and completeness 

 License : Update - Purchase MyTV for ~ $150
 Author/Publisher : Eskape Labs
 Modification Date : May 10, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 5.0 MB

 Download Page 

 Home Page 

 myVCR 0.1.2 

myVCR is a video capture app for Mac OS X that has a timer function to start/stop
recording at a specific date and time.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : D++
 Modification Date : May 3, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 38 Kb

 Home Page 

 netTunes 2.3.1 

netTunes. The ultimate iTunes remote! 
netTunes lets you control iTunes running on one Macintosh from another,
using iTunes' native interface. You get the same main window, the same
playlists, the same capabilities - everything!

This is incredibly handy for users who are using iTunes to feed an audio
system, either directly or with AirPort Express. You no longer have to
walk over there to select your music, nor do you have to put up with a
semi-functional "remote control" program to change or (even worse) find
songs.

With netTunes, you simply connect to the server and take complete
control of iTunes from the comfort of your current computer. It's that
easy - as easy as iTunes itself!

 License : Shareware, $20
 Author/Publisher : Shirt Pocket
 Modification Date : August 24, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.3 MB

 Home Page 

 Nicecast 1.8.6 

Nicecast is the easiest way to broadcast music from OS X. Broadcast to
the world, or just across your house. Nicecast can help you create your
own internet radio station or allow you to listen to your iTunes Music
Library from anywhere in the world!

 License : Shareware, $40
 Author/Publisher : Rogue Amoeba
 Modification Date : April 18, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2.7 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 7.2 MB

 Home Page 

 QuickTime Broadcaster 1.5.2 

Combining the power of QuickTime with Apple's ease of use, QuickTime
Broadcaster allows just about anyone to produce a live broadcast event.
From a backyard birthday party to a corporate keynote speech, QuickTime
Broadcaster allows anyone with an Internet connection to "virtually"
attend.

QuickTime Broadcaster is Apple's award-winning live encoding software
that lets you produce professional-quality live events for online
delivery - quickly, easily and affordably.

QuickTime Broadcaster takes full advantage of QuickTime, the most
powerful digital media technology on the Internet. The combination
QuickTime Broadcaster, QuickTime Streaming Server and QuickTime provides
the industry's first end-to-end MPEG-4-based Internet broadcasting
system, which allows you to reach not only the large and growing base of
QuickTime Players, but also any ISO-compliant MPEG-4 player. Whether you
are a novice or a professional, QuickTime Broadcaster is designed to
meet your needs.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Apple
 Modification Date : December 12, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4.10 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.0 MB

 Home Page 

 Remote Buddy 1.8 

Remote Buddy turns the remote control in your hands into a key to your
entire system. No matter, whether you want to control applications and
presentations, browse and playback your music and video collection,
watch TV with EyeTV, browse the web or your filesystem, make the globe
turn in Google Earth, enter a text, move the mouse, play games or maybe
just change the brightness of your screen - you can do this all with
Remote Buddy! And so much more!
 Using your iPhone you can control more than 95 applications, system parameters and Remote Buddy itself - just like with any other supported remote.

 License : Shareware, $40
 Author/Publisher : IOSPIRIT GmbH
 Modification Date : November 14, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 6.3 MB

 Home Page 

 Romeo 0.9.3 

Romeo gives you remote control of your mac via Bluetooth and a
compatible mobile device, controlling programs such as iTunes and DVD
Player, as well as presentation applications. Use your mobile as a
mouse, as a volume control, or as a method of telling your mac when
you're there.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Arboreal
 Modification Date : July 2, 2004
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2.4 or higher - Sony Ericsson t39, t68 and t68i, t610, t616 or Veta Universal on a Nokia 3650

 Download 
File Size: 84 MB

 Home Page 

 Salling Clicker 3.5 

Salling Clicker is our award-winning remote control tool.
 Free yourself from those shackles that is your laptop! Any audience will be impressed
with your dynamic walk-around-the-stage performance as you change slides from your mobile
phone or PDA.
 With our out-of-the-box support for award-winning products such as iTunes from Apple,
and EyeTV from Elgato, Salling Clicker becomes a great remote control for your TV watching
and music listening.

 License : Shareware, $20
 Author/Publisher : Salling Software
 Modification Date : May 11, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2.8 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 6.6 MB

 Home Page 

 SHOUTcast 1.9.8 

This SHOUTcast server runs on Mac OS X and Mac OS X Server 2. It is a
unix-style app without an Aqua interface, and has to be run in a
terminal window.
SHOUTcast is a streaming media system for Windows and Un*x platforms.
At the center of the system is this product, the SHOUTcast Distributed
Network Audio Server (DNAS). The DNAS is responsible for accepting
a broadcast feed from Winamp and the SHOUTcast Source DSP plug-in, and
repeating the broadcast to listeners connected to this SHOUTcast DNAS.
Once your source content is being fed into the SHOUTcast DNAS, it will
also, dependent on the source content's configuration, list itself
with the SHOUTcast directory so listeners can locate your broadcast.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Nullsoft, Inc.
 Modification Date : February 28, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 63 Kb

 Home Page 

 TFmac 0.7.8 

TFmac connects your Mac to Topfield TF4000 PVRs. 
 Features
 * easy to use
 * preview multiple recordings (requires mplayer; existing installation can be used)
 * download multiple recordings to your Mac
 * various download formats (e.g. TS, VOB, MP3)
 * upload files to the Topfield

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Frank Hoewing
 Modification Date : March 9, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 3.9 MB

 Home Page 

 TFmac 5000 0.3 

What it is:
 This application is used for really fast data transfer between a Topfield 5000 disk, and Mac OS X.
 What it can do:
 * Give access to a Topfield 5000 PVR formatted hard disk, that is directly connected to your Mac, via IDE, USB or FireWire. (This means you have to open your TF, and take the disk out of it.)
 * You can read the directories, copy files from and to the TF-disk, and delete files from the TF-disk.
 * Use it for movies, TAPs and MP3s.
 * Be aware, that when writing to the disk, the Topfield will do a "Verifying files and folders". I never had any loss of data, but it's your responsibylity if you want try.
 What it can not do:
 * Access the disk, while it is in the Topfield, and the Mac is connected to the TF via USB. There are other applications to do this, for example MPEG Streamclip.
 * Connect to a Topfield 4000 disk. Try Frankies site if you have a TF 4000.
 How fast is it?
 * Up to 10 x faster than a Topfield Mac connection.
 * IDE: I did not test, probably faster than FireWire
 * FireWire: about 20 MB/sek. Less than 1 min/GB
 * USB 2.0: about 12 MB/sek. Less than 1,5 min/GB

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Spock
 Modification Date : March 3, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 129 Kb

 Home Page 

 TiVoDecodeManager 2.1 

TiVoDecode Manager (TDM) is an Applescript Studio front-end (i.e. "wrapper") that
automates the process of downloading of TiVo Series 2 files to your computer and decoding
into MPEG-2 files. Features include:
 * Bonjour discovery of local TiVos (or enter an IP manually)
 * Listing of show, episode, date recorded, and other information
 * One-click download and decoding of TiVo shows
 * Batch processing queue for multiple downloads

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : David Benesch
 Modification Date : January 8, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 5.9 MB

 Home Page 

 TiVo Decoder 1.3 

This is a simple AppleScript droplet which includes a binary of the TiVoDecode program.
Just drag and drop your .tivo files on it and get an MPEG-2 video out. You can then use
other tools to convert that MPEG-2 into something else.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Nik Friedman TeBockhorst
 Modification Date : December 12, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 58 Kb

 Home Page 

 TiVo Desktop 1.9.2 

TiVo Desktop is an easy to use application that lets you publish and
share digital music, photos, and TiVo recordings between your networked
TiVo Series2 DVR and your computer.

 License : Update
 Author/Publisher : TiVo, Inc.
 Modification Date : February 14, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 460 Kb

 Home Page 

 TiVoTool 0.7 

TivoTool allows you to download, stream, or burn videos from your Series 1 or 2 Tivo or DTivo.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : John Susek
 Modification Date : November 20, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher - Some key components are Universal Binaries

 Download 
File Size: 15.5 MB

 Home Page 

 Vidi 0.4.7 

Vidi is an application that lets you view and record video on your Mac
using any FireWire DV device. When used with a Formac Studio DV, Studio
DV/TV or StudioTVR device, Vidi lets you select the input source, change
TV channels and adjust picture settings.

Vidi includes a control palette for changing channels and adjusting
picture settings when the Studio DV/TV is being used with other
applications, such as QuickTime Broadcaster or iMovie.

Vidi can record in the background, but you can also use Vidi to watch
video at full size and full frame rate as it is being recorded.

You can use Vidi to schedule recordings in advance. Vidi will perform
the recordings at the scheduled times, as long as you're not logged out.

If your Studio DV/TV has an FM tuner, you can also use Vidi to listen to
and record FM radio.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Mitz Pettel
 Modification Date : October 26, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2.8 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 2.1 MB

 Home Page 

 Wirecast 3.0.3 

Wirecast makes it easy to create dynamic webcasts. It has been designed
for building detailed multimedia broadcasts with many web cameras,
images, titles and movies etc.

Wirecast introduces the unique concept of shots. You can package up your
selected cameras, graphical overlays, movies and titles into a shot.
Once you have built your list of shots, you can transition the broadcast
between them with a single mouse click.

Controlling your broadcast in real-time is easy. With Wirecast's
multiple layer support, it's simple to place a background music track
over your webcast, while changing between the cameras you want your
viewers to see.

Wirecast uses the QuickTime Streaming architecture for its broadcasting.
You can "unicast" over the public internet or your LAN. When you want to
scale your webcast up, you simply send your broadcast to a Darwin or
QuickTime Streaming Server. Your viewers can then watch your webcast
through QuickTime Player or embedded directly into a webpage.

 License : Demo, $449
 Author/Publisher : Vara Software
 Modification Date : August 1, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 9.6 MB

 Home Page 

 XHub Media Center 2.3.1 

XHub Media Center is one of the most popular alternatives to Apple's
Front Row software. Developed exclusively for Mac OS X Tiger, XHub Media
Center is fast, feature-rich and highly customizable, yet amazingly easy
to use. Just connect your Mac to your living room TV and enjoy all of
your digital media on the big screen from the comfort of your sofa. In
addition to the essential music, movies, and photos modules, XHub Media
Center also offers internet radio, web browsing, and EyeTV integration.

 License : Shareware, $25
 Author/Publisher : Snarb.tk
 Modification Date : December 11, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 24.3 MB

 Home Page 

 Denotes Mac OS X Intel Native 
 Denotes Mac OS X Intel & PPC Native 
 Denotes Mac OS X PPC Native 
 Denotes Mac OS 8/9 PPC Native 
 Denotes Mac OS 680x0 Native 
 Denotes Non-OS Specific Code 

 Back to the Main Page of Pure Mac