Pure Mac: Massively Multiplayer Online Games - Software for Macintosh 

 Massively Multiplayer Online Games 

 Web 

 Pure-Mac.com 

 Clan Lord 
 EVE Online 
 EverQuest 
 Lineage 

 Minions of Mirth 
 Myst Online: Uru Live 
 Oberin 

 Second Life 
 A Tale In The Desert 
 Vendetta Online 

 Warbirds 
 World of Warcraft 
 WWII Online 

 Pure Mac 
 Education 
 Accessibility 
 Astronomy 
 Calculators & Math 
 Collections 
 Health 
 Hobbies & Crafts 
 Kid Stuff 
 Language 
 Parental Control 
 Recipes 
 Science 
 Teaching Aids 
 Typing 

 Games 
 Action 
 Arcade 
 Board 
 Card 
 Emulators 
 Flight Sims 
 Frivolous 
 Game Utilities 
 MMOG 
 Puzzle 
 RPG 
 Sports & Racing 
 Strategy 
 Word 

 Internet 
 Collaboration 
 Distributed Computing 
 Download Managers 
 Email 
 FTP 
 Internet Utilities 
 iPhone 
 IRC & IM 
 Online Games 
 Peer-to-Peer 
 Remote Access 
 Usenet 
 Video Conferencing 
 VoIP 

 Multimedia 
 Audio 
 CAD 
 Charts 
 DTP 
 Ebook 
 Font Utilities 
 Graphics 
 iTunes & MP3 
 Media Center 
 Music 
 Photoshop Plug-ins 
 Presentation 
 3D & Animation 
 Screen Capture 
 Video 

 System 
 Alternative OS 
 Classic Updates 
 Command Line 
 Contextual Menus 
 CSMs 
 Drivers 
 Face-Lift 
 Launchers 
 Olden 
 Screen Savers 
 Security 
 System Enhancements 
 Virus 
 Widgets 
 X11 

 Utilities 
 Backup 
 Compression 
 Cross-Platform 
 Database 
 Diagnostics 
 Disk & File 
 Finance 
 Handhelds 
 Network 
 PIMs 
 Programming 
 Spreadsheets 
 Telephony 
 Text Editors 
 Time 

 WWW 
 Auctions 
 Browsers 
 Browser Enhancements 
 Page Rippers 
 RSS & Podcasting 
 Site Management 
 Stock Tickers 
 Weather 
 Web Cams 
 Web Editors 
 Web Graphics 
 Web Search 
 Web Server 
 Web Services 
 Web 2.0 

 Extension Key 
 Pure Picks 
 Software Index 

 Clan Lord v527 

Clan Lord is a world of high fantasy role-playing on the Internet. Join
thousands of players around the world exiled to a dangerous island chain
threatened by monsters, sorcery, and political strife. Not just hack and
slash -- heal the wounded, study magic, and solve puzzles.

 License : Demo, $35/$10 per month thereafter
 Author/Publisher : Delta Tao Software
 Modification Date : January 2, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X and Mac OS 8.6 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 44.7 MB - Demo

 Download 
File Size: 44.6 MB - Demo

 Home Page 

 EVE Online 2.3 

EVE is a massive multiplayer online game (MMOG) set in a science-fiction
based, persistent world. Players take the role of spaceship pilots
seeking fame, fortune, and adventure in a huge, complex, exciting, and
sometimes hostile galaxy.

 License : Demo, $20 a month
 Author/Publisher : CCP Games
 Modification Date : November 5, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4.9 or higher, Intel Only

 Download 
File Size: 844 MB

 Home Page 

 EverQuest 1.0.7 

Welcome to the world of EverQuest&reg; for the Macintosh, a huge 3D
massively multiplayer fantasy roleplaying game. Prepare to enter an
enormous virtual environment, an entire world with its own diverse
species, economic systems, alliances, and politics. Choose from a
variety of races and classes, customize your character and begin your
quest in any number of cities or villages throughout multiple
continents. Equip yourself for adventure, seek allies and knowledge and
experience a rich world of dungeons, towers, crypts, and evil abbeys.
Anything is possible: even planes and realities beyond your imagination.
Meet new friends from around the world to face epic challenges. Make
yourself a noble human knight, a vicious dark elf thief, a greedy
dwarven merchant, or whatever suits your desire.

EverQuest for Macintosh is an internet-only game, requiring players to
connect to Sony Online Entertainment servers via their own Internet
connections. Internet connection fees are the responsibility of the
user. Additional monthly subscription fees and valid credit card
required.

NOTE: Due to the coding differences between PC servers and the Macintosh
server, you can only play on the server coded to your specific operating
system; in this case, you can only play on servers designated as
EverQuest Macintosh Edition servers.

 License : Free 15 Day Trial - $13 a month thereafter
 Author/Publisher : Sony
 Modification Date : June 6, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2.4 or higher, 700 MHz G4 or better

 Signup/Download 

 Download 
File Size: 2.7 MB - 1.0.7 Updater

 eqmac.com 

 Home Page 

 Lineage 2.0.5 

Fantasy
 In the medieval world of Lineage, choose to be a gallant knight, a resourceful wizard, a crafty elf, or a revered prince or princess. Play surrounded by guarded castles, perilous forests, sinister fens and valleys filled with the undead. Slay ferocious monsters unlike any known to man or elf.
 Adventure
 Discover the massive and ever-expanding world of Lineage.
 # Journey to the fiery pits and rocky crags in the lair of the dragon, Valakas
 # Descend into dark, dank dungeons and conquer monsters - living and dead - for treasure
 # Explore the watery depths of the Kingdom of Eva and fight creatures of the deep
 # Travel to cities to replenish supplies, swig ale and boast of your victories at taverns and inns
 # Fight and win at the sides of your pledgemates 
 The world of Lineage is continuously growing, making no one game play experience the same.
 Community
 Make friends and foes in your travels. Hunt with friends and strangers alike! Pledge loyalty and vow to conquer the pretender-king and restore your chosen Prince or Princess to the throne.
 All-Out War
 Plan strategies for castle sieges with your pledgemates. It's do or die as you fight and win control of castles and kingdoms, installing your ruler of choice to the throne. Create unlikely alliances to ensure that your Pledge will withstand sieges against it. Expect to be challenged, again and again. This is war, baby, and you're in it!

 License : 7 Day free Trial/$15 month
 Author/Publisher : NCSoft
 Modification Date : March 28, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.1.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.60 GB

 Home Page 

 Minions of Mirth 1.26.2 

A massively single player, multiplayer, persistent world RPG. Its epic
scope and diverse gameplay will keep novice and hardcore players coming
back for more, and more!

 License : Demo, $30 - no monthly fee
 Author/Publisher : Prairie Games
 Modification Date : January 8, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 260 MB - Demo

 Home Page 

 Myst Online: Uru Live 1.0 

For the first time, you are the storyteller. What happens next is up to you. Embark on an
amazing, never-ending adventure filled with wondrous new worlds to explore and captivating
puzzles to solve. Myst Online: Uru Live expands and evolves on a daily basis. The game and
story continually expand and adapt as you and other players make choices and take actions,
so you never know what tomorrow will bring. Join in the next evolution of one of the most
critically-acclaimed and best-selling game franchises of all time and help forge an
all-new Myst story: yours. What story will you tell?

 License : Demo, $10 a month for GameTap
 Author/Publisher : GameTap
 Modification Date : March 16, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4.8 or higher, Intel Only

 Download 
File Size: 35.7 MB

 Home Page 

 Oberin 018.3 

Oberin is an online fantasy role-playing game and virtual community.
Oberin takes place in a persistent, ever evolving world - your character
may come and go, but the world continuously runs.

While there are many separate quests that can be completed in Oberin,
there is no ultimate goal when playing. The journey is the reward. It's
an online fantasy world where the fun comes from interacting with other
real players. You can join a group of fellow players to hunt for
dragons, spend a quiet day fishing, meet a friend at the pub for a game
of chess, or spend some time refining your chosen skills.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Glenn Seemann & David Bourg
 Modification Date : December 30, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X

 Download 
File Size: 25.8 MB

 Download 
File Size: 18.2 MB

 Home Page 

 Second Life 1.18.5.3 

Second Life is a 3-D virtual world entirely built and owned by its residents. Since
opening to the public in 2003, it has grown explosively and today is inhabited by a total
of 2,944,586 people from around the globe.

 License : Demo, Premium Account $10 a month
 Author/Publisher : Linden Labs
 Modification Date : November 29, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher, 1GHz G4 or better

 Download 
File Size: 71.3 MB

 Download Page 

 Home Page 

 A Tale In The Desert II 

Game Genre: A civilization-building game with thousands of players.

Overview: A Tale in the Desert is an online game set in ancient Egypt
where players work together to build the perfect society. It uses the
internet to allow thousands of players to play together in the same
world. All of the characters you will see and talk to in the game are
controlled by other people just like you, not by a computer. A Tale in
the Desert is the first online game to focus on long-term planning and
long-term goals rather than combat. Goals include the creation of great
works of art and architecture, becoming a powerful leader, and building
wealth.

 License : Free Trial: 24 hours over multiple sittings - $14 a month thereafter
 Author/Publisher : eGenesis
 Modification Date : November 27, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher, G4 750MHz or better

 Download 
File Size: 300 MB

 Download Page 

 Home Page 

 Vendetta Online 1.7.47 

Vendetta Online is an MMORPG (massively multiplayer online role-playing
game) in development by Guild Software Inc. In this game, thousands of
people will be able to play together, at the same time, in a single,
persistent universe. Players take the form of spaceship pilots within
this universe, flying to and fro between space stations and other
locations in the galaxy. All combat within the game is fully realtime,
based entirely on "twitch" skill (no "virtual dice rolling"). Players
may fight one another, fight NPCs, participate in groups, or potentially
even engage in large-scale Guild combat.

 License : Free Trial/$10 a month thereafter or $90 a year etc.
 Author/Publisher : Guild Software
 Modification Date : October 26, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2.8 or higher and 1GHz or faster

 Download 
File Size: 139 MB - Demo/updater - Use the built in updater to fully update

 New Account

 Home Page 

 Warbirds 2006 

The Warbirds Flight Simulator, the world's best online aerial combat
game, pits the Axis vs. the Allies in the skies over Europe, Tunisia,
Malta and the Philippines.

Take part in air-to-air flight simulator combat in one of over 50
fighter aircraft, or pound the enemy into submission in one of the games
heavy bombers. With constant updates, new terrains, planes and game
features this conbat flight simulation, with a long and colorful past,
NEVER gets old.

 License : 2 Week Free Trial, $14 a month thereafter
 Author/Publisher : iEntertainment Network
 Modification Date : June 4, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2.8 or higher and a 900MHz G4 or better

 Download 
File Size: 402.0 MB - Warbirds 2006 - Note you need a credit card for the free trial

 Signup Page 

 Downloads 

 Home Page 

 World of Warcraft 2.3.0 

Adventure together with thousands of other players simultaneously.
 Explore an expansive world with miles of forests, deserts, snow-blown mountains, and other exotic lands.
 Choose from three server types and find the one best suited for your own playing style: Normal, Player versus Player, and Role-playing.
 Join the Horde or the Alliance as one of 8 playable races.
 Four years have passed since the aftermath of Warcraft III: Reign of
Chaos, and a great tension now smolders throughout the ravaged world of
Azeroth. As the battle-worn races begin to rebuild their shattered
kingdoms, new threats, both ancient and ominous, arise to plague the
world once again.

World of Warcraft is an online role-playing experience set in the
award-winning Warcraft universe. Players assume the roles of Warcraft
heroes as they explore, adventure, and quest across a vast world. Being
"Massively Multiplayer," World of Warcraft allows thousands of players
to interact within the same world. Whether adventuring together or
fighting against each other in epic battles, players will form
friendships, forge alliances, and compete with enemies for power and
glory.

 License : Purchase for $50, $15 a month
 Author/Publisher : Blizzard Entertainment
 Modification Date : January 8, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher and G4 or G5, 933MHz or faster

 Download 
File Size: 3.8 MB - Update 2.3.0 to 2.3.2

 Download 
File Size: 265 MB - Update 2.2.3 to 2.3.0

 Download 
File Size: 2.5 MB - Update 2.2.2 to 2.2.3

 Download 
File Size: 7.8 MB - Update 2.2.0 to 2.2.2

 Download 
File Size: 475 MB - Update 2.0.x to 2.2.0

 Patch Notes 

 Blizzard 

 Home Page 

 WWII Online 1.23.5 

World War II Online is a combined arms simulation in an online,
persistent, action-packed 3D world. Now you can command and crew a
variety of accurately modeled vehicles and aircraft or you can sling a
weapon and fight as a foot soldier with and against thousands of other
players.

 License : $20 for a 30 Day Trial/$13 a month thereafter
 Author/Publisher : Cornered Rat Software
 Modification Date : June 2, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher and a G4 700MHz or better

 Download 
File Size: 266.0 MB full version 1.23.4

 Download 
File Size: 3.8 MB - 1.23.4 to 1.23.5 updater

 Parent Directory 

 Download Page 

 Home Page 

 Denotes Mac OS X Intel Native 
 Denotes Mac OS X Intel & PPC Native 
 Denotes Mac OS X PPC Native 
 Denotes Mac OS 8/9 PPC Native 
 Denotes Mac OS 680x0 Native 
 Denotes Non-OS Specific Code 

 Back to the Main Page of Pure Mac