Pure Mac: Music 

 Music 

 Can't find what you're looking for? Many of the sound editors, players etc. can be found in the Audio section 

 Editors/Studios 
 Instrumental 
 Miscellany 
 Notation 

 AudioFusion 
 BIAS Peak 
 Cakewalk Metro 
 Cubase VST 
 Deck 
 Digital Performer 
 D-SoundPRO 
 Easy Beat 
 FretPet 
 GrooveMaker 
 MacMod Pro 
 MetaSynth 
 MIDIGraphy 
 Mixman Studio 
 PlayerPRO 
 PRO Tools 
 Studio Vision Pro 
 Unity DS-1 
 Vision DSP 

 ChordBook 
 Chromatic Tuner 
 Guitar Tuner 
 Instrument Tuner 
 Retro AS-1 
 Virtual Drummer 
 Vocal Lab 

 OMeR 
 Open Music System (OMS) 

 Cubase VST 
 Fermata 
 Finale 
 Harmony Assistant 
 Igor Engraver Lite 
 Lime 
 Melody Assistant 
 Mosaic 
 Opus 
 Sibelius 
 Songworks 

 Electronic Musician 
 Macintosh Music Software 
 Mac Music 

 AudioFusion TSW 1.0.2 

AudioFusion TWS is a music software created to transform your PowerMac into a professional studio.
It represents a complete and user friendly solution for creating modern music: techno, trance, house, dance...
This software reproduces all the devices of the techno world (sampler, synthesizer, beat box, recorder, editor) with advantages
of the computer.

 License : Shareware, $25
 Author/Publisher : P.O Latour
 Modification Date : October 30, 1999
 Requirements : PPC

 Direct Download
 File Size: 1191 Kb

 Direct Download
 File Size: 193 Kb - Manual

 Home Page 

 BIAS Peak 2.6.1 

Peak is the most full-featured, powerful, yet
easy-to-use 2-track digital audio editing program
available. In just two short years since its initial
release, BIAS Peak has evolved into a digital
audio editing standard winning critical acclaim
from numerous experts and leading publications.
Now Peak 2.0 is even more powerful and
feature-rich than before, yet it's still the easiest
2-track tool Macintosh audio professionals can
use to take their audio from conception to final
mix, CD, video, film, or the Web.

 License : Demo - TDM $499 - Peak LE is $99
 Author/Publisher : Bias
 Modification Date : July 24, 2001
 Requirements : PPC, Mac OS 7.6.1 or higher

 Demo Download Page

 Updates 

 Home Page 

 Cakewalk Metro 5.0 

Metro 5 is the complete digital audio and MIDI studio for the Mac. It provides
everything you need to produce professional quality music and sound projects from
concept to completion.

Record tracks using any musical instrument or sound source. Arrange your music
with flexible pattern-based sequencing. Explore new ideas with creative
songwriting tools. Mix in real-time using automated audio effects. Edit and print
notation. Even produce scores for film, video and QuickTime movies.

Whether youre producing music professionally or for personal enjoyment, all the
recording and editing tools you need are right here. Step into a multitrack Mac
studio with Metro 5.

 License : Demo, $249
 Author/Publisher : Cakewalk
 Modification Date : July 8, 1999
 Requirements : PPC, System 7.1 or higher

 Direct Download
 File Size: 5299 Kb - version 4.5 Demo

 Updates Page

 Home Page 

 ChordBook 2.3 

ChordBook provides chord lookup for guitar in standard tuning, and
additional chord processing for 70 non-standard guitar tunings. ChordBook's
purpose is simple--provide a way to create your own, customized chord
listings....in the order and with the voicing YOU choose.

 License : Shareware, $20
 Author/Publisher : Digital Image & Sound, Inc.
 Modification Date : October 17, 2000
 Requirements : 680x0 or PPC

 Direct Download
 File Size: 411 Kb - PPC version 2.3

 Direct Download
 File Size: 379 Kb - 68k version 2.1

 Home Page 

 Chromatic Tuner 4.0 

Chromatic Tuner listens while you tune and visually guides you through the tuning process. Out-performs hardware devices sold in music stores!
Chromatic Tuner 4.0 is up to date with OS 9 and provides compatibility across all Mac systems, including
machines as old as the Macintosh LC. Runs on virtually every Mac - 68K, PowerPC, G3, G4, Notebooks, Desktops, Mini Towers,
Compatibles.

 License : Shareware, $15
 Author/Publisher : Rustle Laidman 
 Modification Date : August 7, 1999
 Requirements : 680x0 or PPC

 Direct Download
 File Size: 145 Kb

 Home Page 

 Cubase VST 4.1r2 

Steinberg's Cubase VST transforms your Macintosh PowerPC into a complete recording studio.
Cubase's integration of audio and MIDI recording makes it easy to combine the best the MIDI world
has to offer with your own audio recordings. Just by using a simple MIDI interface with your
Macintosh, any combination of MIDI keyboards and MIDI sound modules can be connected. Cubase
also prints your MIDI parts as notes, with text and titles. The auto-layout functions make good looking
score print-outs very easy. For the audio features, no expensive additional DSP hardware is required.
As a minimum we would suggest a small mixer and a good monitoring system, but as your needs grow,
you can add multiple inputs and outputs with very cost effective PCI audio cards. But one thing to
remember is that Cubase is complete; Quality audio effects are included, and can be extended later with
an ever increasing selection of PlugIns, so you probably only need the extra ins and outs to integrate
your current hardware effects or mixing desk. We call this the Virtual Studio Technology.

 License : Free Updater - Purchase for $799
 Author/Publisher : Steinberg
 Modification Date : April 20, 2000
 Requirements : PPC

 Direct Download 
File Size: 16,952 KB - CuBase VST Score Demo

 Direct Download 
File Size: 10,750 KB - CuBase VST/24 4.x to 4.1r2 updater

 Direct Download 
File Size: 10,337 KB - CuBase VST 4.x to 4.1r2 updater

 Update Page 

 VST Plug-ins 

 Home Page 

 Deck 2.7 

BIAS Deck is a full-featured, multitrack digital audio workstation for the
Macintosh. In the past few years, Deck has won critical acclaim for its vast
array of professional features, its intuitive user interface, and its remarkably
affordable price tag. No other multitrack recording, editing, and mixing software
gives you so much - for so little.

 License : Demo, $399
 Author/Publisher : Bias
 Modification Date : 2.7 is available as of January 18, 2001
 Requirements : 680x0 or PPC, System 7.61 or later

 Demo Download Page

 Direct Download 
File Size: 15,655 Kb - 2.62 Demo

 Direct Download 
File Size: 3028 KB - 2.63 updater

 Updates Page 

 Home Page 

 Digital Performer 2.7 

Digital Performer is an integrated digital audio and MIDI sequencing production
tool. It provides a comprehensive recording, playback, and editing environment
for a large variety of audio applications.

Digital Performer allows you to simultaneously record and playback multiple
tracks of digital audio and MIDI data in a totally integrated, creative
environment. Digital Performer's award-winning multitrack sequencer design,
combined with nondestructive digital audio editing capabilities, provide you with
unprecedented flexibility and control over the music that you make.

Digital Performer literally replaces racks full of recording gear. You get the
capabilities of a multitrack digital recording system - automated 32-bit digital
mixer, reverb, effects, EQ, and compression. All of this integrated with the
award winning sequencing capabilities of Performer.

 License : Free Updates, Purchase for $750
 Author/Publisher : Mark of The Unicorn
 Modification Date : March 9, 2000
 Requirements : PPC, Mac OS 7.6.1 or higher - To use the MOTU Audio System you Need a 120MHz 604e or better

 Updates

 Downloads

 Home Page 

 D-SoundPRO 3.5.1 

D-SoundPRO is a professional Audio Sound Editor, Software Synthesizer, Wave Generator and samplers MIDI/SCSI network manager.

 License : Shareware, $39
 Author/Publisher : Stefano Daino 
 Modification Date : August 17, 1998
 Requirements : 680x0 or PPC

 Direct Download
 File Size: 2212 Kb

 Home Page 

 Easy Beat 1.3.1 

easy beat is a new music authoring program for the Macintosh. It uses the
QuickTime Music Architecture (QTMA) to play songs. If you have QuickTime 3.0 or
newer installed, you don't need extra hardware or software to play songs with
easy beat. If you have a MIDI adapter and an external synthesizer, you can take
advantage of your special hardware, too.
easy beat was designed to be easy to use (hence the name). Nevertheless, easy
beat features everything you need for composing and scoring.

 License : Demo, $89
 Author/Publisher : Uni Software Plus
 Modification Date : August 28, 2001
 Requirements : 680x0 or PPC, System 7 or higher, Quicktime 3 or higher

 Direct Download
 File Size: 4360 Kb - Demo

 Home Page 

 Fermata 2.0.3c 

Fermata is an easy to use
Macintosh notation software package that's powerful enough to satisfy today's
demanding musician. Its intuitive interface uses tear off palettes to keep all of
Fermata's professional features a mere keystroke or mouse click away. Fermata
helps you meet deadlines with features like Step Entry, which lets you quickly
enter or delete notes, rests, rhythmic slashes and chord symbols via MIDI or the
computer keyboard. Functions in Fermata are active without switching modes, so
you spend your time creating music, not searching menus. From complete
orchestrations to single measure examples, nothing helps you score faster than
Fermata.

 License : Demo, $59.95
 Author/Publisher : Opcode
 Modification Date : July 15, 1999
 Requirements : 680x0 or PPC, System 7 or higher

 Direct Download
 File Size: 15,167 Kb - Demo

 Direct Download
 File Size: 18,839 Kb - 2.0.3c updater

 Download Page

 Home Page 

 Finale 2001b 

Finale is the world's best-selling notation software.
 Professional power for desktop music publishing. 
 Import and export graphics: TIFF, EPS, PICT, WMF & Illustrator compatible 
 Get the look you want...many music fonts included! 
 NEW Maestro fonts: Professionals say it's "the first font to make the music look like it
came from an engraver instead of a computer." For wider spacing and elliptical
noteheads, the Maestro Wide font is also included. Engraver, Petrucci, Tamburo and
Seville fonts also included.

 License : Demo, $545 - Allegro is $199
 Author/Publisher : Coda
 Modification Date : September 22, 2000
 Requirements : 680x0 or PPC System 7.1 or higher

 Direct Download
 File Size: 9401 Kb - Finale Demo

 Direct Download
 File Size: 7450 Kb - Finale Allegro Demo

 Updates Page 

 Home Page 

 FretPet 2.1.4 

FretPet is an award-winning guitar-oriented 4-track music sequencer with a
genuinely unique interface that makes writing music easy and fun. It contains a
variety of palettes that showcase many different aspects of your notes, chords,
and scales. Thanks to QuickTime, FretPet will work on any Mac with System 7 or
higher. An iMac with external headphones is ideal!

Playing with FretPet is an interactive learning experience. FretPet presents
notes, scales, and chords in a straightforward manner, which makes it simple to
find and explore melodic patterns of music. Music students will have no trouble
comprehending the way chords and harmonies work in FretPet. With one click you
can instantly transpose, harmonize, and change keys.

Composing with FretPet is amazing. You can make changes to any aspect of your
composition as it plays. This feature, which I call Dynamic Composition, makes it
far easier to compose. A FretPet Composition is built from small repeating
sections. Simply select a range of chords, press play, and those chords loop
repeatedly while you edit them.

 License : Shareware, $15
 Author/Publisher : Scott Lahteine
 Modification Date : March 21, 2000
 Requirements : 680x0 or PPC

 Direct Download
 File Size: 1890 Kb

 Home Page 

 Guitar Tuner 4.0 

Guitar Tuner listens while you tune and visually guides you through the tuning process. Out-performs hardware devices sold in music stores.

 License : Shareware, $15
 Author/Publisher : Rustle Laidman 
 Modification Date : May 4, 1999
 Requirements : 680x0 or PPC, System 6.0.5 through Mac OS 9

 Direct Download
 File Size: 146 Kb

 Home Page 

 GrooveMaker 2.0 

GrooveMaker is the world's only groove generator and loop-remixing software, for
creating non-stop dance tracks in real-time with professional results.
With this unique combination of software and sounds the user can mix grooves
on-the-fly using the included massive collection of recombenable loops, import
and match any audio file instantaneously and export hi-quality mixes for CD or
internet publishing.

 License : Demo, $79.95
 Author/Publisher : IK Multimedia Production
 Modification Date : May 18, 2000
 Requirements : PPC, Mac OS 7.6 or higher, QuickTime 4.0 or higher

 Direct Download
 File Size: 5965 Kb

 Home Page 

 Harmony Assistant 7.8.2 

Harmony Assistant is a useful software for computer-assisted tunes writing and composition. 
Its harmonizing capabilities enable the composer to build quickly and efficiently accompanied tunes, with multiple instruments
and drum background.

 License : Shareware, $78 - Due to the software size, only an evaluation version is available on the Internet. If you order
Harmony Assistant; you'll receive by post mail your personal code but also a CD-ROM with the complete product version. 
 Author/Publisher : Myriad
 Modification Date : October 16, 2001
 Requirements : 680x0 or PPC, System 7.5 or higher and Mac OS X

 Download Page 

 Home Page 

 Igor Engraver 1.5 

Igor completely surpasses all other notation programs. One of the basic goals has
been to give the user an environment that is powerful, fast and easy to
understand and work with. Designed by professional composers, Igor works like a
musician or composer thinks and thus enhances creativity as well as productivity.

Because it is so easy to use, Igor is an excellent tool for the complete novice.
And because Igor is so powerful, Igor is the ideal tool for the publisher,
engraver, arranger, or advanced avant-garde professional composer.

Igor is equally suited for popular music, chamber music, large-scale orchestral
works or operas, or for notating mixed-media scores featuring live electronics
and traditional instruments.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Noteheads
 Modification Date : August 6, 2001
 Requirements : PPC, Mac OS 8.5 or higher

 Direct Download File Size: 18,650

 Direct Download File Size: 3459 - Opcode's Open Music System 2.3.8

 Home Page 

 Instrument Tuner 1.1 

Instrument Tuner is designed to make tuning an instrument, quick, easy, and
consistent, by using a pitch meter and/or musical keyboard. You can play back the
note you are tuning to, by using a QuickTime Musical Instrument or external MIDI synthesizer.

 License : Shareware, $20
 Author/Publisher : BuzzMac
 Modification Date : April 22, 1999
 Requirements : PPC

 Direct Download
 File Size: 715 Kb

 Home Page 

 Lime 6.0 

Music notation software for Macintosh.

 License : Shareware, $65
 Author/Publisher : Lippold Haken and Dorothea Blostein
 Modification Date : January 22, 2000
 Requirements : 680x0 or PPC, System 7 or higher

 Direct Download
 File Size: 2330 Kb

 Home Page 

 MacMod Pro 5.2 

MacMod Pro is a professional quality MOD editor. A MOD is a popular type
of music file that doesn't require extra hardware to be played. Yet the sound quality can
match an audio CD! MacMod Pro provides an intuitive graphical interface and boasts the first full
staff editor.

 License : Shareware, $25 - 30 day trial
 Author/Publisher : Ian Mouton
 Modification Date : January 24, 1999
 Requirements : 680x0 or PPC

 Direct Download
 File Size: 799 Kb

 Parent Directory

 Home Page 

 Melody Assistant 5.8.2 

Melody Assistant is a useful program for computer-assisted music writing and composition.
If you use often printed scores, it'll be easy to enter them
on your computer : Melody processes almost all the
break symbols used in musical writing, and uses them
while playing the music. A powerful editor allows you
to place and easily move the notes on the staves.
A complete digital instrument database is integrated into Melody,
which gives hi-quality music, even if you don't own professional
hardware. This digital sound database is compatible with the GM
standard and now exports to the MP3 format.

 License : Shareware, $15
 Author/Publisher : Myriad
 Modification Date : October 16, 2001
 Requirements : 680x0 or PPC and Mac OS X

 Download Page 

 Home Page 

 MetaSynth 2.6 

MetaSynth is the first synthesis and sound design software that gives you all the
power of advanced computer graphics to explore infinite sonic possibilities. It
combines sampling, wavetable, additive, subtractive, granular and frequency
modulation techniques with the most intuitive means for visualizing audio
information ever created.

MetaSynth literally lets you paint with sound. What happens when any image from
any source, can be transformed into sound ? MetaSynth, created by legendary
programmer and artist Eric Wenger (the inventor of KPT Bryce) makes this
discovery possible. MetaSynth works with audio like a graphic program. Even
non-musicians can instantly interpret and use MetaSynth's picture window...Create
a vivid tone picture, splashing broad strokes of sound across the screen. Or
carefully draw in notes, harmonics and undertones, entire scores, controlling
every sonic nuance. Or simply use any picture as a starting point for a new sound
or composition, then freely shape and alter it.

 License : Demo, $299
 Author/Publisher : U&I Software
 Modification Date : August 30, 1999
 Requirements : PPC, 150 MHz or faster, System 7.5.3 or higher

 Direct Download File Size: 6324 Kb - version 2.5 demo

 Home Page 

 MIDIGraphy 1.4.3 

A MIDI sequencer application which allows you to edit, play back and record standard MIDI
files. 

 License : Shareware, $20
 Author/Publisher : Masao Maeda 
 Modification Date : November 26, 1999
 Requirements : 680x0 or PPC

 Direct Download
 File Size: 966 Kb 

 Home Page 

 Mixman Studio 4.0 

Mixman Studio software enables anyone to easily create and remix music on a Mac. It is a quick and powerful
way to combine individual sound elements such as guitar, drums, keyboards, and vocals. Automatic
tempo-mathcing makes audio experimentation fast and fun regardless of musical style. Use Mixman Studio to generate
G2, MP2, WMA, or WAV audio in one click. 

 License : Demo, $19.95
 Author/Publisher : Beatnik, Inc.
 Modification Date : November 13, 2000
 Requirements : PPC, Mac OS 8.1 or higher

 Direct Download
 File Size: 6869 Kb

 Home Page 

 Mosaic 1.5.8 

State-of-the-art music desktop publishing software for the Macintosh.
Mosaic provides a WYSIWYG environment in which you can produce
publication-quality music notation, from lead sheets to full orchestra scores.
Includes real-time MIDI recording and playback, as well as convenient step-record
and mouse and keyboard note entry. Supports standard MIDI file format. Unlimited
voices, staves, and voices per staff. Unlimited Undo/Redo.

 License : Demo, $195 for Digital Perfomer users
 Author/Publisher : Mark of the Unicorn
 Modification Date : February 10, 1998
 Requirements : 680x0 or PPC, System 7 or higher

 Direct Download
 File Size: 4399 Kb - 68k Demo

 Direct Download
 File Size: 3924 Kb - PPC Demo

 Direct Download
 File Size: 2394 Kb - 68k 1.5.8 updater

 Direct Download
 File Size: 1880 Kb - PPC 1.5.8 updater

 Home Page 

 OMeR 1.5 

Optical Music easy Reader. 
OMeR is the printed music recognition add-on for Melody Assistant or Harmony Assistant. 

Insert a printed page of music in your scanner, launch OMeR, and edit or listen to the tune with Melody or Harmony Assistant!

 License : Shareware, $15
 Author/Publisher : Myriad
 Modification Date : September 27, 2001
 Requirements : 680x0 or PPC, Melody Assistant or Harmony Assistant 

 Direct Download File Size: 1064

 Home Page 

 Open Music System 2.3.8 

Opcode's Open Music System (OMS) is the standard for MIDI
management. OMS provides detailed descriptions that define your studio setups.
Display and edit your MIDI setup on-screen with colorful icons that illustrate
connections to MIDI interfaces, sound cards and instruments. OMS allows access
your studio by instrument and patch name.
 Key Features Set up once for all MIDI applications Supported by Apple
QuickTime Provide Factory names for over 100 devices Recognizes SampleCell

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Opcode
 Modification Date : September 28, 1999
 Requirements : 680x0 or PPC, System 7.1 or higher

 Direct Download
 File Size: 3714 Kb - 2330

 Home Page 

 Opus 2.5 

Opus is a professional notation software, intuitive and equipped with an
incredible array of functions, adapted to the needs of every type of user. Ease
of use, power, short learning curve, new technology, localization: these are the
main reasons why musicians are more and more choosing Opus. You cannot imagine
how can be easy to read, edit and write a digital score with Opus. Opus is
created to operate using today's technology.

 License : Demo, $399
 Author/Publisher : Sincrosoft
 Modification Date : May 10, 2000
 Requirements : PPC, Mac 7.0 or higher

 Direct Download
 File Size: 6566 Kb - Demo

 Direct Download
 File Size: 5591 Kb - Opus Viewer (freeware)

 Home Page 

 PlayerPRO 5.7 

PlayerPRO is a complete music editing program (SoundTracker). You can use it
with any Mac without any additional hardware. PlayerPRO can load and play
the following music (and sound) formats:

MOD, S3M, MIDI, MTM, MADH, MADG, MADI, MADK, OKTA, MINS, XI, PP, Clip File,
MED, 669, IT, ULT, XM System 7 sound, WAV, AIFF, AIFC, SoundDesignerII,
MPEG, MP3, MuLaw, ALaw, AVI, DVC, Quicktime Movies, MAC3, MAC6, IMA4, MPEG
layer I, II and III (requires QT 4.0), PAT (GUS), QDesign, RAW Data.

 License : Freeware - the commercial version is available for $69
 Author/Publisher : Rosset Antoine 
 Modification Date : September 23, 2000
 Requirements : PPC

 Direct Download
 File Size: 2899 Kb - Freeware version 5.7

 Direct Download
 File Size: 1954 Kb - Commercial version update 5.7

 Home Page 

 PRO Tools TDM 5.0.1 

The power and flexibility of the Pro Tools platform comes from its open
architecture. It supports a wide variety of software products, both from
Digidesign and our Development Partners.

Plug-Ins are add-on software that add capabilities to Pro Tools. They provide
real-time effects like EQ and dynamics, and file-based processes like time
compression and normalization - at a fraction of the cost of hardware-based
signal processors. Every Pro Tools system comes with a standard set of Plug-Ins
to get you started. Check out the online Plug-In finder for more information on
the different types of plug-ins.

The Digidesign environment also supports many standalone programs, including
audio editors, mastering programs, and backup utilities. Pro Tools can also share
information with audio software programs like synthesizers, sample players and
loop generators. The online Development Partner Catalog lists many of these
compatible programs and options.
 Used by Nin, Garbage, Lenny Kravitz, Beck, Everclear, Filter, Limp Bizkit and more.

 License : Free add-ons - PRO Tools Free is freeware
 Author/Publisher : Digidesign
 Modification Date : June 9, 2000
 Requirements : Check the Compatibility Page for specifications

 Download Page
 File Size: 12,282 Kb - PRO Tools Free 5.0.1 - released October 25, 2000

 PRO Tools Free

 Software Downloads

 Home Page 

 Retro AS-1 2.1.1 

Retro AS-1 is the full-featured professional software synthesizer from BitHeadz.
At last there is software that is so convenient and sounds so fantastic, your Mac
OS or Windows 95 computer will become your favorite sound module! Using sizzling
new DSP technology, you can recreate the sounds of all the classic analog
synthesizers or create amazing new soundscapes of your own from scratch with full
programmability.

 License : Demo, $259 
 Author/Publisher : BitHeadz, Inc.
 Modification Date : January 30, 2001
 Requirements : PPC, 120MHz or higher, Mac OS 7.6.1 or higher

 Direct Download
 File Size: 9804 Kb - Demo

 Download Page
 You'll need to fill out the form to get an unlock key for the demo

 Direct Download
 File Size: 8111 Kb - 2.1.1 updater

 Updates Page 

 Home Page 

 Sibelius 1.22 

Sibelius is the world's best-selling music notation software for Mac and Windows.
It helps you write, play, scan, edit and print scores, and even publish them on
the Internet.

 License : Demo, $599
 Author/Publisher : The Sibelius Group
 Modification Date : November 8, 1999
 Requirements : 680x0 or PPC

 Direct Download File Size: 7598 Kb

 Updates For registered users

 Home Page 

 Songworks II 2.45 

Songworks II is for Macintosh/Windows is here! Retaining the ease-of-use of the
original Songworks, Songworks II is fully polyphonic composition and notation
program allowing you to write anything from a leadsheet to a symphony. You can
compose with any number of staves and up to 8 voices per staff - and you can do
it all without using a MIDI device.

Songworks II can automatically notate music that you play on a MIDI keyboard
(both hands this time) or simple tunes that you play on the computer keys.
Songworks II music plays via 16-bit Macintosh sound, QuickTime instruments, or
MIDI (now including OMS compatibility). Unique capabilities such as Active
Listening, Take a Picture, Idea Generators, Chord Analyzer, and Transform Tools
make Songworks II more than a notation program: it's a composer's workshop and a
great tool for exploring music.

 License : Free Player, Purchase for $125
 Author/Publisher : Ars Nova
 Modification Date : November 18, 2000
 Requirements : 68040 or PPC, System 7 or higher

 Direct Download
 File Size: 1022 Kb - Free Player

 Direct Download
 File Size: 1238 Kb - 2.45 updater

 Download Page

 Home Page 

 Unity DS-1 2.1.1 

Unity DS-1 is a software program that turns your computer into a full-featured,
professional digital sampler. With Unity DS-1, you can recreate the sounds of
acoustic instruments or any other audio source with stunning realism and control.

Unity DS-1 has all the features of dedicated hardware samplers. Extensive MIDI
implementation allows real-time control of all parameters and easy integration
into existing MIDI setups. You can play it "live" just like any other musical
instrument with layers, splits, and full MIDI continuous control, or use it as a
multi-timbral sound module running behind your favorite MIDI application on the
same computer.

 License : Demo, $449 
 Author/Publisher : BitHeadz, Inc.
 Modification Date : January 30, 2001
 Requirements : PPC, 120MHz or higher, Mac OS 7.6.1 or higher

 Direct Download
 File Size: 8935 Kb - Demo

 Download Page
 You'll need to fill out the form to get an unlock key for the demo

 Direct Download
 File Size: 7144 Kb - 2.1.1 Updater

 Updates Page 

 Home Page 

 Virtual Drummer 4.1.2 

A Quicktime-based drum machine.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Jon Nichols 
 Modification Date : February 11, 2001
 Requirements : PPC - Mac OS 8.1 or higher - Quicktime 3.0 or greater

 Direct Download File Size: 356 Kb - option click and save to disk

 Home Page 

 Vision DSP 4.5.1c 

Vision DSP is a complete software system for recording, editing, effecting and
playback of MIDI and digital audio. Vision DSP is compatible with ASIO compliant
audio hardware, Apple's Sound Manager and Digidesign's AudioMedia II & III
hardware. Vision DSP fully supports 24bit audio files and is compatible VST and
Premiere plug-in formats. Vision DSP is fully Power Mac native.

Studio Vision Pro is integrated MIDI sequencing and digital audio recording
software for Macintosh. Features include Power Mac native code, full support for
Digidesign TDM bussing, advanced DSP features, enhanced integration with Apple's
QuickTime and support for all major audio file types. Included are grooves in
audio and MIDI format and other enhancement utitlities.

 License : Demo, $59.95 - Studio Vision Pro is $99.95
 Author/Publisher : Opcode
 Modification Date : October 1, 1999
 Requirements : 68030 or higher or PPC, System 7.6.1 or higher

 Direct Download
 File Size: 18,530 Kb - Vision DSP Demo

 Direct Download
 File Size: 30,438 Kb - Vision DSP 4.5.1c updater

 Direct Download
 File Size: 31,140 Kb - Stuido Vision Pro 4.5.1c updater

 Download Page

 Home Page 

 Vocal Lab 

Vocal Lab helps you train to sing on key. It listens while you sing and displays the pitch of your voice on a graph, in real time. All you have to do is watch the
graph while you sing and try to stay in tune. Vocal Lab can help identify many problem areas in your singing. With a little practice you can greatly improve
your intonation.
Vocal Lab can also be use to help you play many instruments with better intonation - Violin, Brass, Woodwinds 

 License : Shareware, $20
 Author/Publisher : Rustle Laidman 
 Modification Date : March 27, 1998
 Requirements : 680x0 or PPC

 Direct Download
 File Size: 148 Kb

 Home Page 

 Back to the main page of Pure Mac