Pure Mac: Presentation - Software for Macintosh 

 Presentation 

 Web 

 Pure-Mac.com 

 Main Programs 
 Teleprompters 
 Utilities & Add-ons 

 Canvas 
 Director 
 Elements Studio 
 Flash 
 Keynote 
 Kinemac 
 Mapwing Creator 
 PhotoPresenter 
 PowerPoint 
 NeoOffice 
 ProfCast 

 Presentation Prompter 
 Prompt! 
 Videocue 

 Cinematize 
 Gordon 
 Keynote Quartet 
 Mousepose 
 OmniDazzle 
 Salling Clicker 
 Screenography 
 SWF 'n Slide 
 SWF, Lock & Load 
 Text-Osterone 

 Pure Mac 
 Education 
 Accessibility 
 Astronomy 
 Calculators & Math 
 Collections 
 Health 
 Hobbies & Crafts 
 Kid Stuff 
 Language 
 Parental Control 
 Recipes 
 Science 
 Teaching Aids 
 Typing 

 Games 
 Action 
 Arcade 
 Board 
 Card 
 Emulators 
 Flight Sims 
 Frivolous 
 Game Utilities 
 MMOG 
 Puzzle 
 RPG 
 Sports & Racing 
 Strategy 
 Word 

 Internet 
 Collaboration 
 Distributed Computing 
 Download Managers 
 Email 
 FTP 
 Internet Utilities 
 iPhone 
 IRC & IM 
 Online Games 
 Peer-to-Peer 
 Remote Access 
 Usenet 
 Video Conferencing 
 VoIP 

 Multimedia 
 Audio 
 CAD 
 Charts 
 DTP 
 Ebook 
 Font Utilities 
 Graphics 
 iTunes & MP3 
 Media Center 
 Music 
 Photoshop Plug-ins 
 Presentation 
 3D & Animation 
 Screen Capture 
 Video 

 System 
 Alternative OS 
 Classic Updates 
 Command Line 
 Contextual Menus 
 CSMs 
 Drivers 
 Face-Lift 
 Launchers 
 Olden 
 Screen Savers 
 Security 
 System Enhancements 
 Virus 
 Widgets 
 X11 

 Utilities 
 Backup 
 Compression 
 Cross-Platform 
 Database 
 Diagnostics 
 Disk & File 
 Finance 
 Handhelds 
 Network 
 PIMs 
 Programming 
 Spreadsheets 
 Telephony 
 Text Editors 
 Time 

 WWW 
 Auctions 
 Browsers 
 Browser Enhancements 
 Page Rippers 
 RSS & Podcasting 
 Site Management 
 Stock Tickers 
 Weather 
 Web Cams 
 Web Editors 
 Web Graphics 
 Web Search 
 Web Server 
 Web Services 
 Web 2.0 

 Extension Key 
 Pure Picks 
 Software Index 

 Canvas X 0.2.925 

Create complex technical illustrations with one comprehensive tool.
Slash the costs and time involved with using multiple graphics and
desktop tools. Use Canvas X to create graphics, edit images, layout
documents and craft eye-catching presentations.

 License : Demo, $350
 Author/Publisher : ACD Systems
 Modification Date : October 11, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2.6 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 59.6 MB - Demo

 Updates 

 Home Page 

 Cinematize 2.05 

With Miraizon Cinematize, you can finally extract a video or audio clip
from your DVD, and save it in a format compatible with standard
multimedia editing applications such as QuickTime, iMovie, and Final
Cut.

Create a collection of your favorite scenes. Extract video alone and add
your favorite music. Create your business or class room presentation
with important videos. Edit your recorded TV programs. Create your
original video and audio DVD. From professionals to home users, the sky
is the limit for Cinematize applications.

 License : Demo, $50
 Author/Publisher : Miraizon LLC
 Modification Date : December 22, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 843 Kb - Demo

 Download 
File Size: 1.5 MB - 2.05 Updater

 Home Page 

 Director MX 2004 10.1r11 

Macromedia Director is the proven multimedia authoring tool for
professionals. Director combines broad media support for media types,
ease of use, high-performance, and an infinitely extendible development
environment to deliver rich content and applications for CDs, DVDs,
kiosks, and the Internet. Director MX 2004 offers powerful new features,
including two scripting languages, DVD-Video support, cross-platform
publishing, and Flash MX 2004 integration.

 License : Updates, $1,199
 Author/Publisher : Adobe
 Modification Date : September 17, 2004
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 48.1 MB - Demo

 Download 
File Size: 39.4 MB - 10.1r11 updater

 Home Page 

 Elements Studio 3.2 

Norpath Elements is a new generation of interactive authoring software
that allows new and experienced designers to quickly create powerful,
rich-media applications without having to write code or learn a
scripting language. Norpath Elements' authoring systems are capable of
creating a wide range of solutions including educational software,
training software, multimedia software, presentation software, survey
software, interactive kiosks, information kiosks, and much more.

 License : Demo, $495
 Author/Publisher : Norpath
 Modification Date : October 30, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.7 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 36.5 MB

 Home Page 

 Flash 8.0 

Macromedia Flash lets designers and developers integrate video, text,
audio, and graphics into effective experiences. Macromedia Flash is the
world's most pervasive software platform, reaching 98% of
Internet-enabled desktops worldwide, as well as many popular devices.

 License : Demo, $499, Pro Edition $699
 Author/Publisher : Macromedia
 Modification Date : September 30, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 105 MB - Demo

 Download 
File Size: 73.5 MB - 7.2 updater

 Home Page 

 Gordon 1.6.5(032) 

Gordon is an exceptional tool that includes an impressive list of
features to parse and edit Shockwave Flash movies. It decompiles all
Action Script and accurately displays all movie elements of a published
SWF file. With Gordon you can edit or compress Shockwave Flash movies
without having access to the original fla project or Macromedia Flash MX.
 Vector graphic, bitmap image and sound data can be exported to the
most common formats including PDF and TIFF.
 Whether you want to recover lost or corrupted Flash documents, review
the programming of a movie, updating an entire site to Flash MX or just
explore the SWF file structure, Gordon will help any Flash designer.

 License : Demo, $59
 Author/Publisher : FutureCandy
 Modification Date : August 1, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 878 Kb

 Home Page 

 Keynote 4.0.1 

Amaze your audience with cinema-quality presentations that are easier
than ever to create. Use the new features in Keynote '08 - the latest
version of Apple's powerful presentation software - to tell your story
effectively and dramatically.

 License : Demo, Purchase iWork $79
 Author/Publisher : Apple
 Modification Date : September 27, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4.10 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 31.1 MB - Keynote 4.0.1 Update

 Download 
File Size: 469 MB - iWork '08 Demo (includes Pages 3.0, Keynote 4.0 and Numbers 1.0)

 Download 
File Size: 2.7 MB - Keynote 3.0.2 updater - September 28, 2006

 Download 
File Size: 22.0 MB - Keynote 2.0.2 updater - May 25, 2005

 Download 
File Size: 30.5 MB - Keynote 1.1.1 updater - October 28, 2003

 Home Page 

 Keynote Quartet '05 

The perfect accompaniment to Apple's Keynote and Pages applications,
Jumsoft's Quartet provides you with 27 original Keynote themes plus
hundreds of unparalleled animations and photographic illustrations with
and without backgrounds. So your next presentation comes off as
convincing and memorable and one-of-a-kind. Not ho-hum and have-seen.

 License : Demo, $99
 Author/Publisher : Jumsoft
 Modification Date : June 16, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X, Keynote 1, 2 and 3

 Download 
File Size: 2.9 MB - Keynote Objects 2.0 demo - January 26, 2004

 Home Page 

 Kinemac 1.5.1 

Kinemac is a 3D Real Time Animation & Presentation Software for Mac OS
X. It allows you to create your own professional 3D Animations with the
simplicity of a 2D presentation tool.

Kinemac plays the animations in real time at full screen and export them
to QuickTime movie files or to a series of single still images. For this
reason it's the ideal application to create Advertising for TV, trailers
for movies, video-clips, instant scrolling messaging to put "on air" in
real time, video content for CD, DVD, web sites...

Kinemac is very easy to use. Just drag your images, text, movies and
songs onto the Kinemac stage to get them into your animation. Also you
can quickly call a menu and create 3D and 2D objects such as cubes,
cylinders, spheres, tubes, pies, rectangles, disks... On any object you
can apply image and movie textures and set the surfaces attributes such
as color, transparency, reflection...

 License : Demo, $249
 Author/Publisher : Kinemac
 Modification Date : January 15, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 3.0 MB - For Mac OS X 10.4.x

 Download 
File Size: 2.0 MB - For Mac OS X 10.3.x

 Home Page 

 Mapwing Creator 1.0.1 

Mapwing Creator is the new standard for building and sharing virtual
tours. Affordable and easy-to-use, it turns digital pictures into
feature rich tours that contain photographs, maps, comments, and
hotspots. Tours can be shared using Adobe's Flash Player via the Web,
disc, or email.

 License : Demo, $39, Pro $295
 Author/Publisher : Redbug Technologies
 Modification Date : September 14, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 3.0 MB

 Home Page 

 Microsoft Office 2004 11.3.9 

Word Processor (Word), Email (Entourage), Spreadsheet (Excel) and
Presentation (PowerPoint) combination.

 License : Purchase Microsoft Office for $399 - Student/Teacher edition $149
 Author/Publisher : Microsoft
 Modification Date : October 24, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2.8 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 2.5 MB - Office 2004 11.3.9 Updater

 Download 
File Size: 9.1 MB - Office 2004 11.3.8 Updater

 Download 
File Size: 8.6 MB - Office 2004 11.3.7 Updater

 Download 
File Size: 15.2 MB - Office 2004 11.3.6 Updater

 Download 
File Size: 58.8 MB - Office 2004 11.3.5 Updater

 Download 
File Size: 12.5 MB - Office 2004 11.3.4 Updater

 Download 
File Size: 57.6 MB - Office 2004 11.3.3 Updater

 Download 
File Size: 6.5 MB - Office 2004 11.2.1 Updater

 Download 
File Size: 3.3 MB - Office 10.1.9 Updater - December 19, 2006

 Updates Page 

 Home Page 

 Home Page 

 Mousepose 2.5.4 

Mousepose 2 is an essential tool for everyone doing presentations or
demos. If turned on, it dims the screen and puts a spotlight on the area
around the mouse pointer, easily guiding the audiences attention to an
area of interest.

 License : Shareware, $10
 Author/Publisher : Boinx Software
 Modification Date : November 21, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 3.4 MB

 Home Page 

 NeoOffice 2.2.2p7 

NeoOffice is a fully-featured set of office applications (including word processing,
spreadsheet, presentation, and drawing programs) for Mac OS X. Based on the OpenOffice.org
office suite, NeoOffice has integrated dozens of native Mac features and can import, edit,
and exchange files with other popular office programs such as Microsoft Office.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Patrick Luby
 Modification Date : January 14, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 134.0 MB - version 2.2.2 - Intel - October 9, 2007

 Download 
File Size: 136.0 MB - version 2.2.2 - PPC - October 9, 2007

 Download 
File Size: 18.7 MB - version 2.2.2 patch 7 for Intel - January 14, 2008

 Download 
File Size: 19.0 MB - version 2.2.2 patch 7 for Intel - January 14, 2008

 Home Page 

 OmniDazzle 1.0.1 

Introducing OmniDazzle, a set of fun and useful enhancements that help you highlight
certain areas of your screen, create visual effects, and track the location of your mouse
pointer.

If you've ever used your computer screen to do a presentation, capture screen shots, or as
a point of reference while someone looks over your shoulder...you, my friend, could have
used OmniDazzle. OmniDazzle is handy for those times when you need to call attention to
something on your screen ("...as you can all see, line 37 in this spreadsheet lists my
proposed new salary: eleventy hojillion dollars. Any questions?"), and even helps you find
your lost cursor (hey, it happens - especially when you're navigating across the
four-million-pixels-and-counting landscape of a 30" Cinema Display).

OmniDazzle is designed to be both playful and practical; you can use a plug-in to
professionally emphasize a section of your screen, or you can turn your mouse movement
into an area of focus that trails pixie dust (or waves, or a bullseye, or...) across your
desktop. You can configure each plug-in to suit your own particular preferences: change
colors, make objects bigger or smaller, or change the way you activate the OmniDazzle
plug-in of your choice.

 License : Shareware, $15
 Author/Publisher : The Omni Group
 Modification Date : November 1, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4.6 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 5.4 MB

 Home Page 

 PhotoPresenter 3.3 

Present quickly and easily all your pictures and movies with
PhotoPresenter. Choose your preferred slideshow style among several
amazing themes and view any image and movie - either from your iPhoto
library or from anywhere else, such as from a CD.

 License : Shareware, $8
 Author/Publisher : Arizona Software
 Modification Date : January 15, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 10.0 MB

 Home Page 

 Presentation Prompter 4.1.1 

Powerful, easy-to-use teleprompting for Mac OS X. Presentation Prompter
scrolls text smoothly at an adjustable rate. Speakers, actors,
reporters, singers, and narrators can use Presentation Prompter with
their Mac from practice to production. Presentation Prompter
incorporates a variety of features including fully-styled text, forward
and reverse scrolling, scrollwheel fast-forward and rewind, bookmarks to
jump to a specific part of a script, mirroring features for use with
mirror enclosures, and powerful script editing features, all wrapped in
a beautiful aqua interface. The software can also be adapted to work
with a variety of production styles, and has customizable hotkeys and
preferences that can automate common operations used in teleprompters.

 License : Shareware, $65
 Author/Publisher : NextForce Software
 Modification Date : September 22, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 315 Kb

 Home Page 

 ProfCast 2.1.3 

ProfCast is the ideal tool for recording and publishing your live
Keynote or PowerPoint presentation. All elements of your presentation,
including slide timing and voice narration, are recorded. You can then
publish your complete presentation on the Web as a Podcast, complete
with RSS support.
 * Live Presentation Recording
 * Synchronized Slides with Audio
 * RSS Generation for Podcasting
 * Publishing support via FTP, SFTP and .Mac
 * Integration with GarageBand 3
 * Integration with iWeb
 * Support for Audio Playthrough
 * File Size Control
 ProfCast lecture podcast software allows you to record your presentation
as you give it! ProfCast also helps you publish your recorded
presentation as a podcast including slides, audio and valid RSS.

 License : Shareware, $35
 Author/Publisher : Humble Daisy
 Modification Date : May 22, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 8.8 MB

 SWF 'n Slide Pro 1.026 

SWF 'n Slide is available in a Standard Edition and a Pro Edition. Both
are extremely easy programs to take your digital images and music, and
create professional slide shows in minutes to share with family and
friends. Works with all popular file formats for images and audio. SWF
'n Slide outputs slide shows as the Macromedia Flash file format (SWF)
which is the most compatible animation and video file format for
Internet applications. SWF 'n Slide is great for anyone who owns a
digital camera and wants to share their pictures with others. Share your
slideshows over the web, through email, or burn onto CD-ROMS for easy
distribution. In just a couple of minutes you can convert a folder full
of photos into a stunning slide show with sophisticated transitions and
effects.

SWF 'n Slide Pro offers the same features as the standard edition, but
also allows you to create other types of slide shows including scrolling
thumbnails and 3D flip books.

 License : Demo, $65
 Author/Publisher : Vertical Moon
 Modification Date : May 23, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 11.1 MB

 Home Page 

 Prompt! 7.0 

Prompt! is a simple teleprompter application for public speakers used by
CEO's of banks, heads of religious organizations, radio dejays and alike
either on camera or in front of a live audience. Prompt! gives you the
additional support which provides that little bit of confidence one
needs in a public speaking environment.

 License : Shareware, $44 - Lite version Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Rob Johnson
 Modification Date : July 9, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 6.7 MB - Lite version

 Home Page 

 Salling Clicker 3.0.1 

Salling Clicker is our award-winning remote control tool.
 Free yourself from those shackles that is your laptop! Any audience will be impressed
with your dynamic walk-around-the-stage performance as you change slides from your mobile
phone or PDA.
 With our out-of-the-box support for award-winning products such as iTunes from Apple,
and EyeTV from Elgato, Salling Clicker becomes a great remote control for your TV watching
and music listening.

 License : Shareware, $20
 Author/Publisher : Salling Software
 Modification Date : February 15, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2.8 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 4.9 MB

 Home Page 

 Screenography 1.011 

Screenography is an extremely easy program to capture your screen to
various image, movie and Flash formats. Very useful for creating
tutorials, training videos/CDs and demonstrations.
 Capture any area of the screen to an image, or Flash file instantly or in a timed screenshot.
 Record any area of the screen to a movie or Flash file.
 Capture objects on the screen, such as windows, dialog boxes, menus, and icons. 
 Save screen captures to BMP, GIF, JPEG, PDF, Photoshop, PICT, PNG, SWF, Targa, and TIFF.
 Save movie captures to AVI, DV, FLC, Image Sequence, MPEG-4, MOV, SWF, FLV, and Flash Projector files (self-executable). (This feature is not available in Screenography Lite)
 Automatically overlay your captures with a watermark/copyright notice.
 Automatically generate thumbnails for your screen captures.
 Add Drop Shadow and Color Fades to the border of your captures.
 Output Macromedia Flash movie files (SWF).Over 97% of all browsers already have the Flash Player installed, so you won't have to worry about your audience being able to view your captures. 
 Add Flash preloaders to your Flash movie files with the built-in preloader option,

 License : Demo, $40
 Author/Publisher : Vertical Moon
 Modification Date : January 15, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 3.2 MB - Demo

 Home Page 

 SWF, Lock & Load 1.205 

SWF, Lock & Load is an extremely easy program to create Flash Preloaders in seconds!
 Features:
 Output Macromedia Flash (FLA) files! SWF, Lock & Load can create a starting point for your new Flash projects with the Preloader automatically attached to it.
 Output Macromedia Flash movie files (SWF).Over 97% of all browsers already have the Flash Player installed, so you won't have to worry about your audience being able to view your preloader. 
 Choose from over 100 graphical prealoder templates!
 Preload your SWF files externally, or merge in the Preloader to create a single file.
 Create "Smart Preloaders" which will attempt to preload enough for smooth playback based on the users connection speed. 
 Add custom feedback messages showing current statistics such as percentage, bytes loaded, and frames loaded.
 Save project files so you can save your work to allow you to make changes to an existing prelaoder over time.
 No fees are required for the Macromedia Flash file format, so you can create unlimited royalty free preloaders.
 Add preloaders to slide shows created with SWF 'n Slide.

 License : Demo, $20
 Author/Publisher : Vertical Moon
 Modification Date : January 25, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X

 Download 
File Size: 3.8 MB - Demo

 Home Page 

 SWF 'n Slide Pro 1.025 

SWF 'n Slide is available in a Standard Edition and a Pro Edition. Both
are extremely easy programs to take your digital images and music, and
create professional slide shows in minutes to share with family and
friends. Works with all popular file formats for images and audio. SWF
'n Slide outputs slide shows as the Macromedia Flash file format (SWF)
which is the most compatible animation and video file format for
Internet applications. SWF 'n Slide is great for anyone who owns a
digital camera and wants to share their pictures with others. Share your
slideshows over the web, through email, or burn onto CD-ROMS for easy
distribution. In just a couple of minutes you can convert a folder full
of photos into a stunning slide show with sophisticated transitions and
effects.

SWF 'n Slide Pro offers the same features as the standard edition, but
also allows you to create other types of slide shows including scrolling
thumbnails and 3D flip books.

 License : Demo, $35 - Pro Version $65
 Author/Publisher : Vertical Moon
 Modification Date : March 26, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 11.1 MB

 Home Page 

 Text-Osterone 1.113 

Text-Osterone is an extremely easy program to generate eye-popping Flash
animated text effects in seconds! Works with your installed True Type
and Postscript fonts. Text-Osterone is easy to use and is great for
websites and presentations.

 License : Demo, $40
 Author/Publisher : Vertical Moon
 Modification Date : November 29, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X

 Download 
File Size: 4.4 MB - Demo

 Home Page 

 Videocue 2.7 

At its core, Videocue is a unique new application to help you create
striking movies of you reading your words aloud, all without memorizing
a single word.
 Using the Application is simple:
 * Enter the text of your speech
 * Drag your camera icon to the storyboard
 * Press Record button
 Once you're done, you can save the finished QuickTime movie to your
computer or upload to a remote FTP site. Videocue lets you publish a
link to the movie and the text of your presentation to most popular
blogging and vlogging services.

 License : Demo, $90
 Author/Publisher : Vara Software
 Modification Date : November 6, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 5.3 MB

 Home Page 

 Denotes Mac OS X Intel Native 
 Denotes Mac OS X Intel & PPC Native 
 Denotes Mac OS X PPC Native 
 Denotes Mac OS 8/9 PPC Native 
 Denotes Mac OS 680x0 Native 
 Denotes Non-OS Specific Code 

 Back to the Main Page of Pure Mac