Pure Mac: Pure Picks 

 Pure Picks 

These are all programs I use on a regular basis. They may or may not be the best
in their category but you certainly can't go wrong with any of them. There are dozens of other exceptional programs which I either don't have
a personal use for or just didn't suit my fancy as well as those listed. You are encouraged to experiment and pick and choose the programs
most suitable to yourself. Ain't shareware fun! 

 Audio 
 BBS 
 Contextual Menu Modules 
 Control Strip Modules 
 Email 
 FTP 
 Graphics 
 Instant Messaging 
 Internet Gaming 
 Internet Phones 
 Internet Utilities 
 IRC 
 Paranoia 
 System Enhancements 
 Telnet 
 Usenet 
 Video Conferencing 
 Web Browsers 
 Web Publishing 

 Audio 

 Audion pretty much does it all: It encodes; plays mp3s, CDs and streaming media. I particularly like the playlist organization and it undoubtedly has
the best sound of any of the MP3 programs even to my tin ear.

 SoundApp is pretty much all you need to play audio files. It will convert and play almost any audio file you will come across. 

 BBS 

 Hotline is still the easiest way to set up a chat/file download/news server on your Mac. It leaves a lot of room for improvement but for finding interesting files
such as emu ROMs and mp3s, it can't be beat.

 Contextual Menu Modules 

 More File Info CMM will give you all the info you want for your files and applications. It's also the easiest way going to change
types and creators.

 Send To CM makes it easy to open a file in whatever application you want and also makes it easy to send items to the folder of your choice.

 StuffCM gives you the choice of stuffing files in 4.5 or 5.x formats and just generally makes it easier to stuff/binhex and ustuff files.

 Control Strip Modules 

 Control PPP is a CSM which lets you connect to the internet from the Control Strip. It also shows you how
long you've been connected and has very handy arrows which indicate upload and download activity.

 FM Egg Timer will alert you at a selected time so you don't do silly things like burn the bacon, forget to pick up your
kid from soccer practice or miss the latest episode of whatever garbage you enjoy watching on TV ... and it's free.

 WorldClock CSM is a CSM which gives you the current time in the city of your choice.
I don't really need this but I enjoy being able to see what time it is in Abu Dhabi for some reason ... and it's free.

 Email 
 Eudora is the best all around email program going and well
worth the $40 fee, but then I've been addicted to Eudora for seven years now. If you aren't already an addict, you might have a hard time justifying paying $40 when there are other adequate free email clients to choose from or you can use the Ad infested version of Eudora for free, (definitely not an option for me). It's very dependable and has all the features you'll need in an email program and more.

 FTP 
 Fetch is by far the easiest and most efficient FTP client to use when updating your web page. It supports drag and drop just as Anarchie does,
but you can also upload multiple files through the dialog box which is often much more efficient. Fetch hasn't been updated for quite some time and although there are a number of other excellent FTP clients, I'm always finding something I could
do easier with Fetch. Admittedly, the downloading features are behind the times (poor resumable downloads) but I generally use Netscape or Monica for downloads anyway.

 Monica is a batch downloader. It comes in quite handy if you like storing away a batch of URLs to download before you go to bed. Although the interface
is not sublimely designed, it's quite suitable and does an almost flawless job at resuming downloads. Generally I use my browser to download files, but if I have a large number of files I want to download or a particularly large file I want to make sure
will resume appropriately if disconnected, I turn to Monica.

 Graphics 
 GraphicConverter can convert or view almost any type of graphic file you are likely to encounter. It will also let you do basic editing. The cost is $35, pretty steep for shareware, but not as much as Photoshop of course. 

 Internet Gaming 

 Game Ranger is an online service which lets you find other gamers and easily connect to them for online play.
For those who have been frustrated with connecting to others for games, this is the program for you. This really is a slick, easy to use service (free too)
which lets you play all the Quakes, Rainbow Six, Madden NFL and over thirty more high quality games easily and effectively. It's just starting to
catch on now but the quality is there to make it into an extremely popular service. So, check it out now before it gets too crowded.

 Instant Messaging 

 Gerry's ICQ is an ICQ clone. ICQ lets you see when your friends or associates are online and send them instant messages or files.
Actually, the original ICQ program provides all I need but Gerry's ICQ adds a number of nice features, including a handy Control Strip Module, and it's better supported than the standard ICQ client.
Of course if all your friends and family are using AOL Instant Messenger , ICQ isn't going to do you much good.

 Internet Phones 
 Internet Phone is still the only decent commonly used cross-platform phone out there. Although Internet Phone has claims to the contrary, there still aren't any usable internet phone to real phone options out there for the Mac. 

 Internet Utilities 
 IP NetMonitor is all you need for those little nitty gritty internet tools. It does Ping, DNS Lookup, Traceroute,
Finger, Whois and more. It even has a monitor so you can keep tabs on your internet connection. A very slick package. 

 IRC 
 ircle is my current choice in IRC clients. While ShadowIRC (a great free client) and Snak are both fine clients, ircle gets my vote mainly because it does well 
trying to connect to busy servers. 

 Paranoia 
 PGP has one of the strongest encryption routines
going, makes it easy to encrypt personal files and send encrypted email, has an easy to use wipe info program and CMM, it's widespread and it's free. 

 System Enhancements 

 Default Folder is probably one of the most
useful enhancements to the Mac OS. It allows you to go to often used folders quickly and easily from the open and save dialog boxes. Action Files also does
this and much more but all I really need is Default Folder. 

 FinderPop is another indispensable addition to the Mac OS that
greatly enhances Contextual Menus. I use it mainly as my launcher and file and folder navigator but it has many other useful features as well. 

 LiteSwitch is an infinitely better implementation of the application
switcher which comes with Mac OS 8.5 and greater. And it's free. 

 SwitchRes automatically changes your screen resolution and bit depth
according to selected programs and will also save your desktop's icon positions. Indispensable if you have a lot of old games or children who like a larger resolution than what you
prefer. 

 Telnet 
 Better Telnet is my current choice in Telnet clients, I had been using Nifty Telnet SSH for a while because I liked the SSH capabilities,
but I decided I really didn't need SSH and Better Telnet is just generally more reliable. 

 Usenet 
 MT-NewsWatcher is my current choice for usenet news. It's a complete, slick newsreader with all the options
you'll want. It does multi-threading (hence the name) better than any other newsreader, i.e. you can download files while adding new files to the queue and read and reply to other newsgroups at the same time.
The latest version also lets you connect to multiple servers. YA-NewsWatcher has some great features too, such as a built in picture viewer and it's great for uploading binaries.
All in all, they are both great newsreaders but MT has the edge with me because of its great multi-threading. 

 Video Conferencing 
 CU-SeeMe was the first video conferencing application to appear on the internet (another Mac first by the way) and
it's still the most popular. The freeware version from Cornell is quite satisfactory if you don't need a lot of bells and whistles (1.0b10 now even supports color). You might want to check out the commercial Cu-SeeMe from White Pine if you'd like more
features and have the money to spend. Overall, video conferencing over a modem hasn't improved much if at all over the past six years. 

 Web Browsers 

None of these web browsers are perfect and as a result I find myself using a combination of them. Currently iCab is the quickest and leanest of the browsers. It has some flaws,
such as it doesn't have 128 bit encryption for secure sites such as banking and https (largely Apple's problem) and javascript still needs refining. Netscape 6 is finally a half decent browser. In fact I've been using it most of the time lately.
 Internet Explorer 5.0 is actually quite nice, it seems fast for the most part although it is oddly slow loading local pages. It doesn't show the originating link for redirected downloads, very annoying, and doesn't display downloads in kilobytes after they get to the size of megabytes, one of my quirky preferences. Also, Explorer at times seems to bog down my entire Mac doing whatever it's trying to do. All in all, they all have advantages and disadvantages but Explorer is
probably the best overall product for the time being with iCab coming on strong.

 Web Publishing 
 BBEdit is pretty much all I use for making web pages. But of course
I don't do anything fancy as you might be able to tell. The freeware lite version is all I really need but I spent the $100 plus just so I could get the colored HTML tags. However,
expert web masters will assuredly find many more reasons to buy the commercial version.

 Back to the main page of Pure Mac