Pure Mac: Recipes - Software for Macintosh 

 Recipes 

 Web 

 Pure-Mac.com 

 Beverages 

 Cookbooks 

 BarGenie 
 BarWare 
 BeerAlchemy 
 BeerMeister 
 Homebrew Formulator 
 Party Pro for iPod 

 BusyCooks RecipeDB 
 The Computer Cookbook 
 Computer Cuisine 
 Connoisseur 
 A Cook's Books 

 CookWare 
 iCuistot 
 Kitchen 
 MacGourmet 
 Measuring Cup 

 Recipe Box 
 Organized Gourmet 
 Shop'NCook 
 Yum 
 YummySoup 

 Pure Mac 
 Education 
 Accessibility 
 Astronomy 
 Calculators & Math 
 Collections 
 Health 
 Hobbies & Crafts 
 Kid Stuff 
 Language 
 Parental Control 
 Recipes 
 Science 
 Teaching Aids 
 Typing 

 Games 
 Action 
 Arcade 
 Board 
 Card 
 Emulators 
 Flight Sims 
 Frivolous 
 Game Utilities 
 MMOG 
 Puzzle 
 RPG 
 Sports & Racing 
 Strategy 
 Word 

 Internet 
 Collaboration 
 Distributed Computing 
 Download Managers 
 Email 
 FTP 
 Internet Utilities 
 iPhone 
 IRC & IM 
 Online Games 
 Peer-to-Peer 
 Remote Access 
 Usenet 
 Video Conferencing 
 VoIP 

 Multimedia 
 Audio 
 CAD 
 Charts 
 DTP 
 Ebook 
 Font Utilities 
 Graphics 
 iTunes & MP3 
 Media Center 
 Music 
 Photoshop Plug-ins 
 Presentation 
 3D & Animation 
 Screen Capture 
 Video 

 System 
 Alternative OS 
 Classic Updates 
 Command Line 
 Contextual Menus 
 CSMs 
 Drivers 
 Face-Lift 
 Launchers 
 Olden 
 Screen Savers 
 Security 
 System Enhancements 
 Virus 
 Widgets 
 X11 

 Utilities 
 Backup 
 Compression 
 Cross-Platform 
 Database 
 Diagnostics 
 Disk & File 
 Finance 
 Handhelds 
 Network 
 PIMs 
 Programming 
 Spreadsheets 
 Telephony 
 Text Editors 
 Time 

 WWW 
 Auctions 
 Browsers 
 Browser Enhancements 
 Page Rippers 
 RSS & Podcasting 
 Site Management 
 Stock Tickers 
 Weather 
 Web Cams 
 Web Editors 
 Web Graphics 
 Web Search 
 Web Server 
 Web Services 
 Web 2.0 

 Extension Key 
 Pure Picks 
 Software Index 

 BarGenie 1.0.2 

More recipes than a sailor can handle, at your fingertips. With fast
search built right in, you can quickly and easily find the drink you
were looking for, or maybe find a new one you didn't know you wanted.
Export your favorites to your iPod, bartending manual, BAC calculator
and more.

 License : Shareware, $20
 Author/Publisher : Pracx
 Modification Date : July 9, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 6.6 MB

 Home Page 

 BarWare Deluxe 2.5 

BarWare Deluxe is a bartending guide, giving you instructions on
everything from making classic drinks to building your mixology
vocabulary.

 License : Shareware, $13
 Author/Publisher : Digital Fried Chicken
 Modification Date : April 25, 2003
 Requirements : Mac OS X and Mac OS 8.6 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 4.5 MB

 Download 
File Size: 3.4 MB

 Home Page 

 BeerAlchemy 1.5.4 

BeerAlchemy is designed to help homebrewers create great beer. It takes the drudgery out
of recipe formulation and looks after all your recipes too!

 License : Shareware, $30
 Author/Publisher : Kent Place Software
 Modification Date : October 24, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 4.9 MB

 Home Page 

 BeerMeister 3.0 

When I first started homebrewing a few years ago, I spent a lot of time
looking for recipes...and for Macintosh recipe software. In the process,
I collected quite a few recipes, but didn't find much software. So I
decided to write my own. The result, which you see here, is BeerMeister.

 License : Shareware, $15
 Author/Publisher : Ethan Rutter
 Modification Date : August 31, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X

 Download 
File Size: 6.0 MB

 Home Page 

 BusyCooks RecipeDB 4.2.1 

Organize all your recipes on the Mac or PC and simplify meal planning!
 Enter and organize your own recipes
 Add or remove categories as needed
 Search hundreds of recipes in seconds
 Edit recipes quickly and easily
 Create shopping lists
 Print recipes automatically
 Email recipes to friends & family
 Export database for quick back-up
 Import recipes from the BusyCooks.com free recipes area without typing anything
 Post your recipes to the BusyCooks.com free recipes area without typing anything
 Swap recipes with other RecipeDB users. Send your database to another user to import your recipes on their software, and vice versa.
 Cut and paste recipes into database from web sites, text files, emails, etc.

 License : Shareware, $18
 Author/Publisher : BusyCooks
 Modification Date : July 1, 2004
 Requirements : Mac OS X

 Download 
File Size: 1.4 MB

 Home Page 

 The Computer Cookbook 3.1.6 

The Computer Cookbook allows you to keep track of, add, delete and
manage your Recipes easily on your computer. The Big Deal about my
program is that you enter your recipes as you would find them in real
recipes, As Whole numbers & FRACTIONS. No need to convert your recipes
to decimals like most other cookbook / recipe programs make you do. With
The Computer Cookbook you would enter 2 3/4 cups AS 2 3/4 cups. The
Computer Cookbook also allows you to Re-Size your recipes without
permanently changing your original recipe. You can even print out this
re-sized recipe!

 License : Shareware, $30
 Author/Publisher : C D Rhodes
 Modification Date : November 16, 2003
 Requirements : Mac OS X and Mac OS 8.6 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.6 MB

 Home Page 

 Computer Cuisine Deluxe 5.0 

Computer Cuisine Deluxe is the perfect solution to allow you to
conveniently view, print, sort, file, organize and save your cooking
recipes. Features include a well designed layout that makes adding,
viewing, sorting, finding and printing a snap. In addition to the
simple, yet highly graphical layout, Computer Cuisine Deluxe allows you
to add an infinite number of your own recipes to the existing database.
This will allow your personal recipe database to grow and grow! Also
includes over 1,000 recipes to help you get started! Don't want anyone
elses recipes? No problem. You can delete them all to ensure that only
your recipes make it into the database.

New Features! - With a host of new features, now you can manage your
shopping list, plan a full weeks worth of meals with the meal planner,
or see nutritional information geared exactly to your calorie
requirements! See below for more on the new features.

 License : Shareware, $20
 Author/Publisher : Inaka Software
 Modification Date : November 18, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X

 Download 
File Size: 29.5 MB

 Home Page 

 Connoisseur 1.2.1 

Connoisseur makes managing your recipes as easy as iTunes makes managing
your music. From the elegant and snappy interface to auto-completing
ingredients, we have put in the hard yards so you can focus on what is
important; entertaining your guests.
 Features at a glance
 Manage Recipes: Add your own recipes or change ours.
 Sort with ease: Find the recipe you want, fast.
 Recipe Scaling: Big family? No problem.
 Importing; Import any recipe.
 Online Catalogue: Discover and share recipes.
 Shopping List: Know what to buy.
 Cooking View: Cook without destroying your Mac.
 Unit conversion: Go metric!
 Export to PDA: Compatible with Handy Shopper.
 Export to iPod: Turn it into a cookPod.
 Export to PDA (2): Compatible with SplashShopper.
 Informational Freedom: Based on open formats.

 License : Shareware, $20
 Author/Publisher : The Little App Factory
 Modification Date : October 18, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.7 MB

 Home Page 

 A Cook's Books 1.2.1 

A Cook's Books is a powerful and elegant recipe manager / nutritional
reference tool created specifically for Macintosh OS X users.

 License : Shareware, $25
 Author/Publisher : 3CAAM Software
 Modification Date : November 11, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2.8 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 4.6 MB

 Home Page 

 CookWare Deluxe 3.2 

CookWare Deluxe makes collecting and organizing recipes really simple.
The concept of CookWare Deluxe recipe software is to be very easy to use
without giving up features. Dragging and dropping 
recipes into CookWare Deluxe makes adding recipes really fast.
You can drag recipes from your Internet browser or word processor
directly into CookWare Deluxe, categorize it and you're finished! After
dropping your recipe into CookWare Deluxe use the Editing Helpers to
reformat and change the abbreviations for ingredients so your entire
collection of recipes are consistent. The Editing Helpers also auto-fill
the recipe.

 License : Shareware, $36
 Author/Publisher : DigitalFriedChicken
 Modification Date : November 12, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.1 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 27.1 MB

 Download 
File Size: 4.8 MB

 Home Page 

 Homebrew Formulator 2.7.5 

Homebrew Formulator is an application for creating and managing beer recipes on Mac OS X.
It is a Filemaker runtime application, so it has a powerful database driving its
capabilities. It was developed by John Tull and Ken Nussear to meet our personal needs,
but we have decided to make it available to the public free of charge. Of course, you can
always send us some beer or donations if you would like.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : John C. Tull & Ken Nussear
 Modification Date : January 18, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 21.4 MB

 Home Page 

 iCuistot 1.1 

iCuistot follows the trend set by Apple's iApps. It provides a powerful
feature set with an easy to use and familiar user interface. iCuistot
provides a great recipe management software by taking the best from
popular software like iTunes, iCal, Keynote, Safari and the Address
Book. iCuistot will quickly becomes your best cooking companion!
 Everything is at your Fingertip
 With the Inspector all the information is centralized in a nicely place.
More than 150 different informations may be saved for each recipes.
Everything is so well organized that you will find what your want
quickly. From categorization to notes, from nutritional information to
dietary exchange lists, from appreciation to accompaniment, from the
recipe image to preparation time, from digital rights managements
options to Dublin Core metadata about everything is supported.
Naturally, you fill what your want. The only required information is the
recipe name. The inspector is contextual. When you edit recipes, you see
recipes properties, and when you edit themes, you see themes properties.
The Inspector can either be attached to the main window as a drawer or
floating as a standalone window. All the flexibility is allowed, nothing
less.

 License : Shareware, $26
 Author/Publisher : Cafederic
 Modification Date : October 21, 2004
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 5.8 MB

 Home Page 

 Kitchen 1.0 

Organize All Your Recipes
 Are you tired of losing recipes and having to search through a stack of books to find them? Enter all your recipes into Kitchen, and you'll never have that problem again. Browse and search your recipes for that perfect meal for any occasion.

Shopping Lists
 Are you going to the store and wish there was an easy way to print out a list of all the items you need? Simply select all the recipes you have planned for the week, and Kitchen automatically generates a shopping list for you.

Email Your Recipes
 Do you wish you could easily email recipes to your friends and family? Kitchen lets you send recipes at the click of the mouse.

 License : Shareware, $15
 Author/Publisher : Epigroove
 Modification Date : July 26, 2004
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2.8 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 12.4 MB

 Home Page 

 MacGourmet 2.2.5 

You organize your digital photos, you make playlists of your mp3s. Now
bring your recipe organization into the 21st century with MacGourmet.
Think of MacGourmet as "iTunes for recipes."MacGourmet helps you create
and edit recipes, wine notes and cooking notes, easily browse your
entire collection and build your own custom lists for categories like
appetizers or desserts.

In addition to recipes, MacGourmet lets you save notes and labels for
wines you've had, creating a digital "wine scrapbook." Had a great wine
that would go well with a certain recipe? MacGourmet lets you make a
relationship between them. In fact, make one or many relationships
between every kind of recipe box item.

And like your wine notes, you can keep lists of your cooking notes,
those nuggets of wisdom that are general and not necessarily specific to
any one recipe or wine.

 License : Shareware, $25
 Author/Publisher : Advenio LLC
 Modification Date : January 3, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 6.9 MB

 Home Page 

 Measuring Cup 1.2.3 

I would like to think that it is the easiest to use recipe management
software out there in the Mac OS X land. Think iTunes or iPhoto for
recipes. Specifically, these are the features:
 Simple organization of recipes. iTunes/iPhoto kind of organization. Allows user defined categories and sub-categories. Searchable.
 In-place editing. Some software have a presentation view that is different from a editing view. I find that cumbersome. I like to edit my recipe as easy as when I am viewing it.
 Undo/Redo support. Good - no, make that great - undo/redo support. I am a careless person and tend to make mistakes and so I absolutely need this support.
 Simple view of a recipe. Shows the most important detail in the main screen. The rest is tucked away in an Aqua drawer.
 Aqua luscious. I try to be a good OS X citizen.
 XML backing store. You probably don't care about this but I thought it would be cool to mention it. All recipes are stored as XML file for easy sharing eventually.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Shallot Patch
 Modification Date : January 4, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2.8 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 2.2 MB

 Home Page 

 Organized Gourmet 2.3 

Organized Gourmet is a complete recipe management application with the
unique ability to schedule meals and integrate with iCal.

Recipe Management - Create new recipes, edit or delete them, and group
similar recipes (create, edit, or delete the groups as well) for easy
access. Search for recipes by name or ingredient and sort the recipes by
any of the information displayed. A recipe includes the following
information: ingredients, directions, cook time, difficulty, and serving
size. Email recipes with the click of a button.

Schedule Meals - Drag and drop recipes onto the built-in calendar to
schedule a meal for a given day. The calendar displays not only the name
of the recipe, but an icon for the group that it belongs to. Hit the
'iCal' button to integrate the scheduled recipes into iCal under their
own Calendar. Full details about the recipe, including the name,
ingredients, and directions, are included in the new iCal entries.

Shopping List - After scheduling meals, view and print a shopping list
for the selected day or week. Combine similar ingredients.

Convert Units - Convert any value from one unit to another.

 License : Shareware, $10
 Author/Publisher : Ex- Spectator Software
 Modification Date : October 12, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 2.4 MB

 Home Page 

 Party Pro for iPod 7.0.5 

The ultimate bartending and party guide for your iPod.
 Give yourself:
 - The 800 most used drink recipes
 - 55 drinking games
 - Global bar and club guide for every major US + European city
 - Bartending tips and tricks
 - 100 pick-up lines for both men and women
 - Post-party solutions

 License : Shareware, $10
 Author/Publisher : Helmes Innovations
 Modification Date : February 1, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X and a 3rd Generation iPod or later

 Download 
File Size: 4.5 MB

 Home Page 

 Recipe Box 1.3 

Recipe Box is the easiest to use, most practical electronic recipe book
application on the market. It maintains not only a database of your
favorite recipes that can be displayed or printed scaled for any number
of servings, but also of the ingredients, units of measure, and
preparations methods used to ensure minimal typing and maximum
consistency.

 License : Shareware, $24
 Author/Publisher : Sonora Graphics
 Modification Date : January 13, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 10.9 MB

 Download 
File Size: 7.0 MB

 Home Page 

 Shop'NCook 3.4.2 

The smart solution for your cooking and grocery shopping. Recipes are
easily added by typing them in, pasting from the clipboard, or importing
directly from the internet: no formatting is necessary. The wizard
interprets the recipes, links them to the database of grocery items or
to other recipes and yields an accurate nutritional analysis without
user intervention. You organize your recipes by categories and in
cookbooks that you can share with the free Shop'NCook Reader software. A
powerful scaling tool lets you scale the ingredients and the text of the
recipes, make automatic ingredient substitutions and unit conversions.
The ingredients of the recipes are converted to your preferred shopping
units and added to a collating grocery list with a click. Contrary to
most cooking software, grocery lists can also be created by directly
selecting items of the database, adding from sublists or just typing in
new items. Other features: customizable database of 2000 grocery items
with nutritional data for more than 40 nutrients; nutrition scripts to
control the display of nutritional information and compute custom
nutritional formulas; e-mail tool to send recipes and shopping lists;
direct access to an online recipe database where Shop'NCook users share
their recipes.

 License : Shareware, $35, Pro $100
 Author/Publisher : Rufenacht Innovative
 Modification Date : March 13, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 3.4 MB 

 Download 
File Size: 3.5 MB - Pro

 Home Page 

 Yum 2.3.5 

"Yum" is a recipe collection application featuring:
 * Dynamic searching of all text - found set of recipes updated as you type the search terms.
 * Indexing by category - each recipe can belong to any number of user-defined categories.
 * Several printing options - 1 recipe, all recipes, selected recipes, all recipes in selected category, found recipes. Let's face it, who can afford to have the computer itself in the kitchen and operate it with flour and eggs all over their hands?
 * Recipe text can be fully formatted including fonts, styles, paragraph settings, and even graphics (copy and paste, or drag and drop) so that pictures of your recipes can be included anywhere within the recipe text.
 * Recipes can be imported from MasterCook export files, or from other Yum files, and can be exported to Yum! files or to text files.
Included in the distribution is my own recipe collection, "Sample Collection.yum". This can be used to evaluate the software's cababilities without having to enter your own collection from scratch.
 Even if the application does not entirely suit your needs, you might like some of these recipes!

 License : Shareware, $ user determined
 Author/Publisher : Nixanz
 Modification Date : September 3, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.1 MB 

 Home Page 

 YummySoup! 1.6.2 

What makes YummySoup! so great?
 - Clean, consistent, easy to use Interface. If you can use OS X, you can use YummySoup!
 - Browse recipes just like browsing your E-Mail
 - Simple, Single Panel Recipe Editing
 - Drag ingredients from web-pages or documents directly into the editor.
 - Easy on the eyes and easily adjustable Full Screen View
 - Super intelligent navigating system similar to iPhoto
 - An online database which you can browse just as it were part of your local library!
 - You can publish your favorite recipes to the online library
 - Email recipes that look just like printouts, with an included export file so your friends can easily import the recipes into their copy of YummySoup!
 and more...

 License : Shareware, $20
 Author/Publisher : HungrySeacow Software
 Modification Date : January 10, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 5.2 MB

 Home Page 

 Denotes Mac OS X Intel Native 
 Denotes Mac OS X Intel & PPC Native 
 Denotes Mac OS X PPC Native 
 Denotes Mac OS 8/9 PPC Native 
 Denotes Mac OS 680x0 Native 
 Denotes Non-OS Specific Code 

 Back to the Main Page of Pure Mac