Pure Mac: Remote Access - Software for Macintosh 

 Remote Access 

 Web 

 Pure-Mac.com 

 Other 
 SSH/Telnet 
 Terminal 
 VNC 
 VPN 

 Apple Remote Desktop 
 AstroApp 
 Citrix ICA Client 
 CoRD 
 Desktop Transporter 
 FarFinder 
 KMremoteControl 
 Microsoft Remote Desktop Connection 
 Say What 
 Timbuktu 

 AlmostVPN 
 BetterTelnet 
 dataComet 
 JellyfiSSH 
 MacSSH 
 MindTerm 
 Nifty Telnet SSH 
 Remote Connections Manager 
 Secure Shell Helper 
 SSH Agent 
 SSHKeychain 
 SSH Tunnel Manager 
 TelnetLauncher 

 dataComet 
 GLterm 
 iTerm 
 MacWise 
 PowerTerm 
 tn3270 
 ZTerm 

 Chicken of the VNC 
 iVPN 
 JollysFastVNC 
 OSXvnc 
 Share My Desktop 
 Vine 
 VNCDimension 
 VNCThing 
 VNCViewer 

 Cisco VPN Client 
 DigiTunnel 
 IPSecuritas 
 Shimo 
 Tunnelblick 
 Vapor 
 VaporSec 
 Viscosity 
 VPN Tracker 
 VPN Tracker Server 

 VNC control of a Macintosh under OS X 10.4 

 Pure Mac 
 Games 

 Action 
 Arcade 
 Board 
 Card 
 Emulators 
 Flight Sims 
 Frivolous 
 Game Utilities 
 MMOG 
 Puzzle 
 RPG 
 Sports & Racing 
 Strategy 
 Word 

 Home 

 Astronomy 
 Calculators & Math 
 Charts & Graphs 
 Collections 
 Health 
 Hobbies & Crafts 
 Kid Stuff 
 Language 
 Parental Control 
 Recipes 
 Science 
 Teaching Aids 
 Typing 
 Weather 

 Internet 

 Collaboration 
 Distributed Computing 
 Download Managers 
 Email 
 FTP 
 Internet Utilities 
 iPhone 
 IRC & IM 
 Online Games 
 Peer-to-Peer 
 Radio 
 Remote Access 
 Usenet 
 Video Conferencing 
 VoIP 

 Multimedia 

 Audio 
 CAD 
 Comics 
 DTP 
 eBook 
 Font Utilities 
 Graphics 
 iTunes & MP3 
 Media Center 
 Music 
 Photoshop Plug-ins 
 Presentation 
 3D & Animation 
 Screen Capture 
 Video 

 System 

 Alternative OS 
 Classic OS Updates 
 Command Line 
 Contextual Menus 
 Cross-Platform 
 CSMs 
 Drivers 
 Face-Lift 
 Launchers 
 Olden 
 Screen Savers 
 Security 
 System Enhancements 
 Virus 
 Widgets 
 X11 

 Utilities 

 Backup 
 Business 
 Compression 
 Database 
 Diagnostics 
 Disk & File 
 Finance 
 Handhelds 
 Network 
 PIMs 
 Programming 
 Spreadsheets 
 Stocks 
 Telephony 
 Text Editors 
 Time 

 WWW 

 Auctions 
 Browsers 
 Browser Add-ons 
 The Cloud & SSBs 
 HTML Editors 
 Page Rippers 
 RSS & Podcasting 
 Site Tweaking 
 Social Networking 
 Web Cams 
 Web Graphics 
 Web Server 

 Extension Key 
 Pure Picks 
 Software Index 

 AlmostVPN 1.5.3 

AlmostVPN is an ssh tunnel management application with a twist. This is
what makes AlmostVPN different:
 * It is packaged as a Preference Panel, so you do not have to use yet another application to configure your tunnels
 * It employs launchd to control tunnels, so you do not have to have yet another application running while tunneling
 * It uses creative network configuration techniques to provide
almost VPN like access to remote services, so you can keep using real IP
addresses and port numbers while accessing services on the other side of
your tunnels.
 * It provides simple way to mount remote volumes via SSH tunnel
 * It can import tunnel definitions from SSH Tunnel Manager and SSHKeychain applications

 License : Shareware, $15
 Author/Publisher : Leaping Bytes
 Modification Date : September 27, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 4.9 MB

 Home Page 

 Apple Remote Desktop 3.2.2 

Apple Remote Desktop is a complete desktop management solution for Mac
OS X. You can distribute software, configure systems, offer real-time
online help and create detailed hardware and software reports - for all
of your Mac systems in your organization, all from your own Mac.

 License : 10 Client $300 - Unlimited Client $500
 Author/Publisher : Apple
 Modification Date : September 16, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 30.6 MB - Admin 3.2.2

 Download 
File Size: 2.8 MB - Client 3.2.2

 Home Page 

 AstroApp 2.13 

AstroApp has meeting capabilities by allowing
up to 10 users to view and control the same desktop at the same time. To
start using the software we recommend creating a free AstroCity login
username from within the software and then connecting to others using
the FriendsList. Using the advanced modes you can also connect to
machines that you setup using an IP address and port number.

 License : Demo, $10 per month for the Anywhere Service
 Author/Publisher : Astroflower Software
 Modification Date : March 26, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 9.6 MB - version 2.13

 Download 
File Size: 275 Kb - version 1.98

 Home Page 

 BetterTelnet 2.0fc1 

BetterTelnet for Mac OS is a significantly enhanced version of NCSA Telnet 2.7b5. It fixes many bugs and has a
redesigned interface that is not only easier to use and configure than NCSA Telnet, but still has as much as if not
more configuration flexibility compared to NCSA Telnet. All configuration options from NCSA Telnet are still in
BetterTelnet. Version 2.0 now also has rlogin support.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Rolf Braun
 Modification Date : January 3, 1999
 Requirements : Mac OS 7.1 and higher

 Download 
File Size: 432 Kb - BetterTelnet version 2.0fc1

 Download 
File Size: 335 Kb - NCSATelnet version 2.7b4 - released June 28, 1995

 Chicken of the VNC 2.0b4 

Chicken of the VNC is a VNC client for Mac OS X. A VNC client allows one
to display and interact with a remote computer screen. In other words,
you can use Chicken of the VNC to interact with a remote computer as
though it's right next to you.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Chicken of the VNC Project
 Modification Date : January 18, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.2 MB

 Home Page 

 Cisco VPN Client 4.9.01.4.9.01.0100 

Simple to deploy and operate, the Cisco VPN Client allows organizations
to establish end-to-end, encrypted VPN tunnels for secure connectivity
for mobile employees or teleworkers. This thin design, IP security
(IPSec)-implementation is compatible with all Cisco virtual private
network (VPN) products.

The Cisco VPN Client can be preconfigured for mass deployments, and
initial logins require little user intervention. It supports the
innovative Cisco Easy VPN capabilities, delivering a uniquely scalable,
cost-effective, and easy-to-manage remote access VPN architecture that
eliminates the operational costs associated with maintaining a
consistent policy and key management method. The Cisco Easy VPN feature
allows the Cisco VPN Client to receive security policies upon a VPN
tunnel connection from the central site VPN device (Cisco Easy VPN
Server), minimizing configuration requirements at the remote location.
This simple and highly scalable solution is ideal for large remote
access deployments where it is impractical to individually configure
policies for multiple remote PCs.

 License : Customers with Cisco SMARTnet support contracts and encryption entitlement may download the Cisco VPN Client from the Cisco Software Center at no additional cost
 Author/Publisher : Cisco Systems, Inc.
 Modification Date : December 15, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 14.4 MB - You need a Cisco SMARTnet support contract to login

 Home Page 

 Citrix ICA Client 10.00.603 

Citrix ICA Macintosh Client is an ICA Client 
providing native connectivity to MetaFrame servers for Macintosh 
users.

 License : Free Client
 Author/Publisher : Citrix Systems
 Modification Date : July 2, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 5.2 MB - Version 10.00.603

 Download 
File Size: 2.5 MB - Version 6.20.154

 Home Page 

 CoRD 0.4.3 

CoRD is a remote desktop client for Mac OS X ported from the UNIX program rdesktop. It is
a Universal Binary, and allows you to connect to multiple servers concurrently. There are
many features not yet implemented, but it is usable in it's current form.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Craig Dooley
 Modification Date : December 1, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 919 Kb

 Home Page 

 dataComet-Secure 10.1.1 

An AppleScriptable Macintosh VT220, PC-ANSI, and IBM-3270 terminal emulator for
Secure Shell 1 + 2, Telnet/TN3270 (K5), and Serial connections with SCP, ZMODEM,
IBM IND$FILE, and Text Editing support

 License : Shareware, $60, Secure $70
 Author/Publisher : databeast inc.
 Modification Date : June 21, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.1 MB - dataComet-Secure 10.1.1

 Download 
File Size: 1.0 MB - dataComet 10.1.1

 Download 
File Size: 1.4 MB - dataComet-Secure 5.0.5

 Home Page 

 Desktop Transporter 1.1.1 

Desktop Transporter is an application that allows you to access your
Macintosh displays remotely over a network, from a different Macintosh.
It supports sharing of one or more displays attached to your Mac, and
allows you to control access to it using a password.

Desktop Transporter discovers shared displays using Rendezvous, but also
provides an option for specifying which machine it should connect to in
cases where Rendezvous doesn't work. You can also set a number of
options controlling the quality of the shared display.

 License : Shareware, $15
 Author/Publisher : Yellow Lemon Software
 Modification Date : November 4, 2004
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.6 MB

 Home Page 

 DigiTunnel 1.4.4 

A Virtual Private Network (VPN) client for Mac OS X, compatible with
Windows 2000, WatchGuard, Nortel, OS X Server 1.2 and other VPN servers.
DigiTunnel supports PPTP (Point-to-Point Tunneling Protocol), an
Internet standard for VPN.

 License : Demo (30 day Trial), $58
 Author/Publisher : Gracion Software
 Modification Date : March 22, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.4 MB

 Home Page 

 FarFinder 1.3.3 

Access your Mac's files from anywhere. All you need is a web browser, or your iPhone.

 License : Shareware, $35
 Author/Publisher : Adrian Ross
 Modification Date : March 26, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.5 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 19.7 MB

 Home Page 

 GLterm 1.2 

GLterm is a replacement for the Terminal application which ships with
MacOS X. It's made to be faster, and to support more common terminal
features. It supports full ANSI colors, all vt102 protocol, all DEC
function keys, and a selection of useful xterm sequences.

The Big Thing is that GLterm uses X11 .bdf fonts and renders them
using..OpenGL. So it's very fast... as long as you have a working 3D
accelerator. It should work as intended on B & W G3 and up for desktops
and on White iBook and up for laptops: ie a machine whose 3D accelerator
is handled properly in OSX.

 License : Sharewre, $10
 Author/Publisher : Michel Pollet
 Modification Date : February 5, 2004
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.1 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 345 Kb

 Home Page 

 IPSecuritas 3.2 

IPSecuritas is the most advanced, yet free IPSec client for Mac OS X. It
supports virtually every available IPSec compliant firewall, allowing
you to connect safely to your office or home network from any location
on earth.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Lobotomo Software
 Modification Date : January 1, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 6.4 MB

 Home Page 

 iTerm 0.9.6 

iTerm is a full featured terminal emulation program written for OS X
using Cocoa. We are aiming at providing users with the best command line
experience under OS X. The letter i represents a native Apple look and
feel of the program interface, and an emphasis on complete international
support. iTerm was merged from two projects, CTerminal and TerminalX,
both of which were based on the JTerminal project. The current version is
still in beta stage. It is, however, very much functional and usable.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Fabian & Ujwal S. Setlur
 Modification Date : September 24, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.8 MB

 Home Page 

 iVPN 3.6 

iVPN is an application that makes use of the standards based PPTP VPN
server installed with Mac OS X. This VPN server is usually only
available on Mac OS X Server and configured through the Server Admin
application. iVPN makes it possible to use the same server utility on
the client version of Mac OS X. All you have to do to set it up is to
enter the user name and password that you want your VPN clients to use,
the IP address range you want to give to your clients and then click
start server. iVPN will handle all the other settings and start the VPN
server. iVPN is the GUI that Apple left out.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Alex Jones
 Modification Date : December 14, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 610 Kb

 Home Page 

 JellyfiSSH 4.5.2 

JellyfiSSH is a simple bookmark manager for connecting to *NIX boxes
like BSD/Linux etc via Telnet or SSH 1 or 2. You can set preferences for
each bookmark including the terminal colours, fonts, window size,
transparency and default login.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Grepsoft
 Modification Date : June 30, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4.8 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 197 Kb

 Home Page 

 JollysFastVNC 0.96.84 

JollysFastVNC is a VNC client whose aim is to become the best VNC client on the Mac.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Patrick Stein
 Modification Date : January 26, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.1 MB

 Home Page 

 KMremoteControl 1.52 

KMremoteControl lets you operate all the PC/Windows and Mac OS X systems
on your desk from the keyboard and mouse on one of those systems.

KMremoteControl presents its operational capabilities via an application
window and its configurable options via multiple, tabbed panels within
its Preferences window. Menus provide access to the licensing,
preferences and help capabilities.

 License : Shareware, $25
 Author/Publisher : Derman Enterprises
 Modification Date : May 1, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 2.8 MB

 Download Page 

 Home Page 

 MacSSH 2.1fc3 

MacSSH is a modified version of BetterTelnet with SSH2 support. 

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Jean-Pierre Stierlin/Based on Rolf Braun's BetterTelnet
 Modification Date : April 22, 2002
 Requirements : System 7.5.1 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 733 Kb

 Download 
File Size: 685 Kb

 Home Page 

 MacWise 11.62 

MacWise emulates ADDS Viewpoint, Wyse 50, Wyse 60, Wyse 370, Televideo
TV 925, DEC VT100, VT220 and Prism terminals. Supports ANSI color.
Esprit III color is also supported in Wyse 370 mode.

MacWise allows a Macintosh to be used as a terminal -- connected to a
host computer directly, by modem, local area network or over the
Internet. The emulators support video attributes such as dim, reverse,
underline, 132-column modes, protected fields and graphic characters
sent from the host computer, as well as enhanced Viewpoint mode.
Features include phone list and dialer for modems, on-screen
programmable function keys, connection scripts and more.

 License : Demo, $95
 Author/Publisher : Carnation Software
 Modification Date : April 2, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.1 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 5.0 MB - version 11.62

 Download 
File Size: 1.0 MB - version 4.4.2

 Home Page 

 Microsoft Remote Desktop Connection 2.0 

Remote Desktop Connection Client lets you connect to a Microsoft
Windows-based computer and work with programs and files on that computer
from your Macintosh computer.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Microsoft
 Modification Date : July 1, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 7.7 MB - 2.0

 Download 
File Size: 1.4 MB - 1.0.3 - October 12, 2004

 Home Page 

 MindTerm 3.0.1 

Mindterm is today probably the most widely spread client that implements
the SSH1 and SSH2 protocols written in pure Java.

Some of the worlds leading manufactures of communication equipment has
signed OEM agreements with AppGate and integrated Mindterm into their
own solutions. Other users are in education sector and goverment.

MindTerm is free for personal use.

MindTerm is small, portable and secure. It contains an extremely
powerful and easy to use SSH client that provides advanced features such
as tunneling support, file transfer GUI as well as support for HTTP and
SOCKS proxies.

MindTerm client also includes an integrated xterm/vt100 terminal
emulator. It has the ability to run both a standalone application and as
an applet.

 License : Freeware for personal use
 Author/Publisher : AppGate
 Modification Date : December 21, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X

 Download 
File Size: 983 Kb

 Home Page 

 Nifty Telnet SSH 1.1r3 

This is an enhanced version of NiftyTelnet which includes support for the SSH
(Secure Shell) protocol for encrypted terminal sessions. NEWS! September 6, 2000
RSA Data Security, Inc. today put the RSA public-key encryption algorithm into
the public domain, meaning that United States users can now download and use
NiftyTelnet SSH legally. This was done two weeks before the expiration of their
patent granted in 1983.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Chris Newman/SSH version Jonas Walden
 Modification Date : June 7, 1999
 Requirements : System 7.5.1 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 559 Kb

 Nifty Telnet SSH Home Page 

 PowerTerm 7.1.8 

PowerTerm InterConnect (Mac OS X Edition), Ericom Software's terminal
emulation product for the Mac platform, maximizes the capabilities of
legacy systems with a minimal amount of installation time and software
space. PowerTerm InterConnect supports a wide range of hosts such as IBM
Mainframe(zSeries), IBM AS/400 (iSeries), OpenVMS, Unix and others, and
a diverse range of emulation types. Because PowerTerm InterConnect has
such a small footprint, it is easily installable on any PC, making it a
simple and fast solution for running legacy applications. PowerTerm
InterConnect's rich feature set and fast key response has made it the
product of choice for thousands of corporations throughout the world.

 License : Demo, $150
 Author/Publisher : Ericom Software
 Modification Date : September 13, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.1.5 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 8.5 MB

 Download Page 

 Home Page 

 Remote Connections Manager 1.0 

Remote Connections Manager was initially built as an utility that allows
to launch ssh sessions with password authentication in different
terminal applications and login with password without user intervention.

Lately it grew in application which offer centralized storage for
telnet, ssh, ftp, sftp connections with unlimited hierarchic folder
support. Among other connection properties a connection has password
property, working directory property and post-login commands property.
These connections can be launched in different terminal applications.
When using ssh, ftp and sftp connection an password will be used for
autologin, working directory will be changed and post-login commands
will be executed after login. ftp and sftp connections can be also
launched in ftp/sftp browsers, an password will be used for autologin.
For user convenience, Remote Connections Manager can import connections
from similar applications or terminal applications and ftp/sftp
browsers.

 License : Shareware, $25
 Author/Publisher : Jan Cinert
 Modification Date : December 17, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 4.9 MB

 Home Page 

 Say What 1.18 

Say What allows you to remotely launch applications, documents or
AppleScripts (Mac Only) via a web browser. Version 1.1 and higher even
allows you to pass parameters to compiled AppleScripts. It uses the
standard HTTP protocol and will run on whatever port you decide so it
can run alongside other web services.

 License : Shareware, $40
 Author/Publisher : AM Design
 Modification Date : February 11, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X and Mac OS 8.6 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 767 Kb

 Download 
File Size: 751 Kb

 Home Page 

 Share My Desktop 1.2 

Share My Desktop (SMD) is a simple little wrapper application that I
created for OSXvnc in AppleScript Studio. SMD makes initiating a VNC
server very simple - just click a button!

VNC stands for Virtual Network Computing. "It is, in essence, a remote
display system which allows you to view a computing 'desktop'
environment not only on the machine where it is running, but from
anywhere on the Internet and from a wide variety of machine
architectures." VNC technology was developed by AT & T Laboratories.

SMD was developed as a tool to offer better support from Tech Support
staff. SMD can be installed on client systems, so if the client needs
assistance, they can call the Tech Support staff, initiate the VNC
server, and give the Tech Support staff the connection information. When
the Tech Support staff is able to share the client's screen, they can
SHOW the client what they need to do to fix a problem, rather than try
to guide them by voice alone.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Mike Bombich
 Modification Date : January 4, 2003
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 506 Kb

 Home Page 

 Shimo 2.0.9 

The initial reason for the development of Shimo was the lousy
software-implementation of the Cisco-VPN-Client for MacOS. Shimo wants
to do it the MacOS-way: That means to reduce the interface to the
important features and integrate it right into the user-interface of the
OS. Thus the interaction with this piece of software is absolutely
intuitive and self explanatory. Try it out and you will see what we are
speaking of...

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : nexusLab
 Modification Date : December 17, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 7.8 MB

 Home Page 

 Secure Shell Helper 1.3 

Secure Shell Helper does the following:
 * Control who's allowed to access your account
 * Generate new OpenSSH keys
 * View/Export your public keys
 * Setup and control the SSH server
 * Easy to use Wizard allows you to configure the server and personal identity

Secure Shell helper alleviates the need to use the command line to
configure a working OpenSSH system. It's all point and click.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Gideon Softworks
 Modification Date : July 5, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 865 Kb

 Home Page 

 SSH Agent 1.1 

SSH Agent is a graphical front-end to some of the OpenSSH tools included
with Mac OS X. Specifically, it allows you to start an ssh-agent,
generate identities, and add identities to an agent. Additionally, it
allows you to make the ssh-agent global so that, e.g., Project Builder
and CVL can use it to do version control over SSH, and it has some
functionality to set-up a secure tunnel.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Xander Schrijen
 Modification Date : May 9, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.1 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 338 Kb

 Home Page 

 SSHKeychain 0.8.2 

You no longer have to cancel your ssh request because you forgot to load
your keys. Because SSHKeychain acts as a gateway between you and the
agent, it can automatically add keys when you need them. SSH will just
pause for a few seconds, and you'll be on your way. SSHKeychain can also
forward local ports over a ssh connection. Tunnels can be launched
automatically when your keys are loaded, or from a menu item.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Bart Matthaei
 Modification Date : August 24, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 613 Kb

 Home Page 

 SSH Tunnel Manager 1.0.3 

SSH Tunnel Manager is a front-end for the ssh command when used to open
tunnels between two hosts. Its command lines are particulary long and
confusing, especially for novices, and I never remember which argument
comes first, if I have to open local or remote tunnels and so on...
That's why I wrote this tool.

I tried to include all the important features people asked me to do
since 1.0 version, so you can tune almost every usefull option available
in the command line tool.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Tynsoe
 Modification Date : April 20, 2003
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 443 Kb

 Home Page 

 TelnetLauncher 2.8.13 

 # Launch sessions with a custom keyboard shortcut!
 # Passwords are stored securely in your Keychain
 # Session can be made to automatically minimize to the dock
 # Set font and size for each session
 # Set Terminal Opaqueness for each session
 # Now allows users to specify terminal colors for each saved session
 # Works as the helper app for telnet://url/ links with IE5
 # Allows you to specify rows and columns for each session
 # Allows you to create custom terminal commands for fast access to unix commands like 'top'
 # Dock menu support makes access to sessions a groups a breeze
 # Multiple groups allows you to organize many sessions
 # Simple, easy to understand interface
 # Set port to non-standard port
 # Easily set up ssh port forwarding (secure tunneling)
 # Set terminal emulation for each session

 License : Shareware, $20
 Author/Publisher : Jim McKay
 Modification Date : May 8, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.1 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.3 MB

 Home Page 

 Timbuktu Pro 8.7.1 

For more than fifteen years, Timbuktu Pro has been the standard for
remote control on Mac OS, (it also works with Windows) allowing users to control distant computers as
if they were sitting right in front of them. Now supporting multi-button
and scroll wheel mouse commands and multiple user
options to maximize bandwidth conservation, Timbuktu Pro remains the
gold standard in remote control software. Already unparalleled in its
ability to find other users and make a connection over virtually any
LAN, Internet or dial-up configuration, Timbuktu Pro's improved Internet
Locator Service adapts itself even to frequently-changed IP addresses,
allowing you to find other users with only an email address.

It isn't only remote control - you can send files and folders without
tying up email; send instant messages or text chat; even voice intercom!
You can even view detailed system information about remote computers
with a click of your mouse.

 License : Demo, $95 for one computer
 Author/Publisher : Farallon
 Modification Date : May 9, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2.8 and higher

 Download 
File Size: 6.9 MB - 8.7.1 Demo

 Download Page
 You'll need an evaluation key

 Home Page 

 tn3270 3.2.4 

tn3270 allows a Macintosh computer with a TCP/IP network connection to negotiate a
Telnet session emulating an IBM 3270 terminal. Features of the emulation include color,
extended highlighting, APL and 3179-compatible graphics.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Peter John DiCamillo/Brown University
 Modification Date : July 24, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.1.5 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.7 MB - version 3.2.4

 Download 
File Size: 337 Kb - version 3.1.7

 Download 
File Size: 720 Kb - version 2.5b5

 Home Page 

 Tunnelblick 3.0b10 

Tunnelblick is a ready-to-use graphical OpenVPN client for Mac OS X. It
comes as an application package with all binaries and drivers included,
no manual installation necessary.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Angelo Laub
 Modification Date : November 20, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.0 MB

 Home Page 

 Vapor 1.1 

Vapor is an innovative new application from Joel Rennich, co-founder of
AFP548.com. Vapor harnesses the power of SSH to provide secure,
encrypted VPN connections for AppleShare, WWW, Server Admin and other
Internet services. Version 1.1 offers improved
error checking, the ability to create reverse SSH tunnels, and an
improved user interface.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Joel Rennich
 Modification Date : July 15, 2002
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.1.5 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.2 MB

 Home Page 

 VaporSec 1.0 

VaporSec an IPSec GUI client that will allow you to create incredibly
secure connections between Mac OS X 10.2 machines - or between your
machine and third party firewalls using the built-in IPSec capabilities
of Mac OS X 10.2. VaporSec has currently been tested between Mac OS X
10.2 machines and with a SonicWall firewall. We're actively looking for
situations where this doesn't work so that we can tweak the code.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Joel Rennich
 Modification Date : June 6, 2003
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1 MB

 Home Page 

 Vine 3.0 

Formerly OSXvnc. 
Vine Server is a full featured VNC server for Mac OS X providing remote
access to the GUI, keyboard and mouse using Vine Viewer or any other VNC
client. Vine Server offers a rich and unique feature set among Mac OS X
VNC servers including:
 * Flexible port assignement for multiple VNC servers on a single computer
 * System servers that run independently of user accounts
 * Outstanding clipboard sharing; Exchange of rich text, images, files and applications when used with Vine Viewer

Vine Viewer is a feature-rich and well support VNC viewer. Some feature highlights of Vine Viewer include:
 * Remote screen capture
 * QuickTime movie recording
 * Secure connections through SSH
 * Viewer window scaling
 Plus, when Vine Viewer is used with Vine Server a further unique benefit includes
 * Rich clipboard support, including copy and past file exchange.
 Vine Viewer has a wealth of uses: Helpdesk, education, remote system administration, telecommuting and family technical support, to name a few.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Redstone Software
 Modification Date : December 18, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 4.2 MB - Vine 3.0

 Download 
File Size: 218 Kb - OS9vnc 3.5

 Home Page 

 VNCDimension 0.7.10 

VNCDimension is a Mac OS X application that lets you remote control
other computers running a VNC server. This application supports multiple
simultaneous sessions. You can find VNC servers for a variety of
platforms, including X Window, Microsoft Windows, Mac OS, and Mac OS X.
For best performance, match the color depth of the VNC server, the VNC
session and your computer.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : mDimension Technology
 Modification Date : February 5, 2002
 Requirements : Mac OS X

 Download 
File Size: 357 Kb

 Home Page 

 VNCThing 2.2 

VNCThing is a VNC client for the Macintosh. It allows you to connect to remote computers and control them as if you were physically there.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Dair Grant
 Modification Date : December 9, 2000
 Requirements : Mac OS X and Mac OS 8.1 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 256 Kb

 Viscosity 1.0.3 

Viscosity is an OpenVPN client for Mac, providing a rich Cocoa graphical
user interface for creating, editing, and controlling VPN connections.

 License : Shareware, $9
 Author/Publisher : SparkLabs
 Modification Date : February 15, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.5 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 7.0 MB

 Home Page 

 VNCViewer 2.0.1 

A VNC client. 

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Robert Kedoin
 Modification Date : December 4, 2000
 Requirements : Mac OS X

 Download 
File Size: 206 Kb

 Home Page 

 VPN Tracker 5.4.1 

Communication over the Internet requires secure solutions to facilitate
connection of mobile workers and interconnection between branch offices.
To support a mobile workforce companies turn to Virtual Private Network
(VPN) technology, utilizing high speed Internet connections for remote
access. Over a VPN telecommuters can access the company network through
a secure tunnel over the Internet, eliminating the threat of
unauthorized access.

VPN Tracker 3 is an application for Mac OS X that is simple to deploy,
manageable and offers complete security to business sensitive
information. The software provides seamless compatibility to most market
leading VPN vendors and to over 150 gateway devices.

 License : Demo, $72
 Author/Publisher : Equinux USA Inc.
 Modification Date : January 23, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 15.9 MB

 Home Page 

 VPN Tracker Server 1.0.4 

VPN Tracker Server is an application to set up encrypted remote access
connections for Mac OS X workgroups over standard Internet lines. The
software runs as a VPN gateway for smaller companies and provides rapid
deployment capabilities to any home or branch office through VPN Tracker
Client.

VPN Tracker Server allows remote access for external users, and home or
branch offices are able to connect securely to the office using VPN
Tracker Client. The client / server architecture provides a bulletproof
protection against illegal tampering, the encryption is based on the
highly acclaimed IPsec protocol and by supporting AES-256, the software
manages very-high security environments (Mac OS X Server is not needed).

 License : Demo, $130
 Author/Publisher : Equinux USA Inc.
 Modification Date : September 30, 2004
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 2.7 MB

 Home Page 

 ZTerm 1.1b7 

ZTerm is a terminal emulation program for the Macintosh. In its day,
many people used it to connect to Bulletin Board Systems and download
files. Now we have the internet. It's still a useful utility for those
systems that only offer dialup connections and for connecting to devices
through a serial port, like many routers. For newer Macintoshes that
don't have a normal serial port, ZTerm can talk to ports on USB to
serial adapters, through the appropriate driver software supplied with
the adapter.

 License : Shareware, $20
 Author/Publisher : David P. Alverson
 Modification Date : October 7, 2002
 Requirements : Mac OS X and Mac OS 8 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 176 Kb

 Download 
File Size: 180 Kb

 Download 
File Size: 404 Kb - version 1.0.1

 Home Page 

 Denotes Mac OS X Intel Native 
 Denotes Mac OS X Intel & PPC Native 
 Denotes Mac OS X PPC Native 
 Denotes Mac OS 8/9 PPC Native 
 Denotes Mac OS 680x0 Native 
 Denotes Non-OS Specific Code 

 Back to the Main Page of Pure Mac