Pure Mac: Security - Software for Macintosh 

 Security & Paranoia 

 Web 

 Pure-Mac.com 

 Access Protection 
 File Encryption 
 Firewall 
 Laptop Theft Deterents 
 Password Storage 
 Steganography 

 LockOut 
 PGP Desktop 

 Anonymity 
 JAP 
 NetShade 
 Tor 

 File/Disk Wiping 
 Burn 
 NetShred 
 Permanent Eraser 
 ShredIt 

 Codex 
 Cryptix 
 GnuPG 
 GPGMail 
 Gpg Tools 
 iROT13 
 Knox 
 MacEncrypt 
 Mac GPG 
 PGP Desktop 
 Tresor 
 Xaes 

 DoorStop X 
 Firewall Builder 
 Flying Buttress 
 NetBarrier 
 sunShield Pro 
 WaterRoof 
 Intrusion Detection Systems 
 HenWen 
 IPNetRouterX 
 IPNetSentryX 
 Snort 

 iAlertU 
 MultiAlarm 
 Undercover 
 Outgoing Connection Monitors 
 GlowWorm 
 Little Snitch 
 Password Generators 
 Keysgen 
 Mac Password Generator 
 Make-A-Pass 
 Passenger 
 PassGenX 
 PasswordPress 
 SimpleAuthority 
 Xyzzy 

 CiphSafe 
 Data Guardian 
 iSafe 
 MacPasser 
 MindFortress 
 1Passwd 
 PasswordWallet 
 Pastor 
 Safe Place 
 SecretBook 
 The Serial Keeper 
 SplashID 
 Steel 
 Wallet 
 Web Confidential 
 webPM 

 Cryptix 
 iSteg 
 Stego 

 Visibility 
 Hide-Out! 
 InVisibles 
 JuhOS X 
 Secret Service 
 Show Hide Invisible Files 
 Wizzard 
 Xray 

 Apple - Mac OS X - FileVault 
 Apple - Mac OS X - Security 
 Electronic Privacy Information Center 
 An Unencrypted Look at FileVault 

 Pure Mac 
 Education 
 Accessibility 
 Astronomy 
 Calculators & Math 
 Collections 
 Health 
 Hobbies & Crafts 
 Kid Stuff 
 Language 
 Parental Control 
 Recipes 
 Science 
 Teaching Aids 
 Typing 

 Games 
 Action 
 Arcade 
 Board 
 Card 
 Emulators 
 Flight Sims 
 Frivolous 
 Game Utilities 
 MMOG 
 Puzzle 
 RPG 
 Sports & Racing 
 Strategy 
 Word 

 Internet 
 Collaboration 
 Distributed Computing 
 Download Managers 
 Email 
 FTP 
 Internet Utilities 
 iPhone 
 IRC & IM 
 Online Games 
 Peer-to-Peer 
 Remote Access 
 Usenet 
 Video Conferencing 
 VoIP 

 Multimedia 
 Audio 
 CAD 
 Charts 
 DTP 
 Ebook 
 Font Utilities 
 Graphics 
 iTunes & MP3 
 Media Center 
 Music 
 Photoshop Plug-ins 
 Presentation 
 3D & Animation 
 Screen Capture 
 Video 

 System 
 Alternative OS 
 Classic Updates 
 Command Line 
 Contextual Menus 
 CSMs 
 Drivers 
 Face-Lift 
 Launchers 
 Olden 
 Screen Savers 
 Security 
 System Enhancements 
 Virus 
 Widgets 
 X11 

 Utilities 
 Backup 
 Compression 
 Cross-Platform 
 Database 
 Diagnostics 
 Disk & File 
 Finance 
 Handhelds 
 Network 
 PIMs 
 Programming 
 Spreadsheets 
 Telephony 
 Text Editors 
 Time 

 WWW 
 Auctions 
 Browsers 
 Browser Enhancements 
 Page Rippers 
 RSS & Podcasting 
 Site Management 
 Stock Tickers 
 Weather 
 Web Cams 
 Web Editors 
 Web Graphics 
 Web Search 
 Web Server 
 Web Services 
 Web 2.0 

 Extension Key 
 Pure Picks 
 Software Index 

 Burn 2.5 

Files and folders dragged onto the Burn icon will be overwritten a user selected 
number of times with a user selected pattern, then renamed, then deleted. Both data 
and resource forks are deleted.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Michael Watson and Paul Jenson/Next Wave Software, Inc.
 Modification Date : November 10, 1998
 Requirements : 680x0 or PPC

 Download 
File Size: 131 Kb 

 Home Page 

 CiphSafe 1.3 

Simple-to-use Mac OS X application to store passwords or other notes
securely. Encrypts with 320-bit Blowfish, includes random password
generation, and a very clean interface. Uses the system's OpenSSL for
encryption.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Bryan L. Blackburn
 Modification Date : December 15, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 429 Kb

 Home Page 

 Codex 1.7.2 

Codex is a Cocoa (MacOSX native) software that allows you to create
encrypted archives, compute checksums, shred, create disk images and
burn sets of files and folders.
 Codex features:
 Archiving: Datas, resources and original attributes are compressed at maximum level and encrypted using the AES 256bits "Rijndael" cipher with a 256bits key created by derivating the password you have provided with the industry standard algorithm PKCS #5 v2 PBKDF2.
 Checksums: ADLER, CRCs, GOST, MD2, MD4, MD5, MDC2, RIPEMD, SHAs, HAVALs, TIGER, WHIRLPOOL.
 HMAC-Checksums: MD2, MD4, MD5, MDC2, RIPEMD, SHA, SHA1.
 Secure deletion: multi-override and deletion (multi-shredding).
 Disk images: Common types (compressed (fast and strong), read only, read and write, master CD/DVD), buid-in encryption and auto-copy/cleanup (internet-enabled) options.
 Burn: Standard MacOSX burn and erase medias features.

 License : Shareware, $19
 Author/Publisher : MacMagna
 Modification Date : November 30, 2004
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 396 Kb

 Home Page 

 Cryptix 0.63b 

 Password Generator
 Mnemonic password generator
 RSA Key Generator
 DH Key Generator
 Ano, Blowfish 447 bits, MD5 C, Rot 13, Twofish Encryption
 Steganography
 CRC Checksum

 License : Shareware, $18
 Author/Publisher : dreads
 Modification Date : December 27, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 8.5 MB

 Home Page 

 Data Guardian 1.3 

Security and privacy are two of the most important issues in today's
world; leaving passwords on sticky notes around your computer simply
will not cut it anymore. Data Guardian is a secure database application
with up to 448-bits of Blowfish encryption - regardless of how sensitive
your data is. Create multiple databases in Data Guardian for a variety
of purposes such as an address book, customer database, christmas
shopping list, journal, password manager, or even notepad.

 License : Shareware, $20
 Author/Publisher : Koingo Software
 Modification Date : December 22, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 8.6 MB

 Home Page 

 DoorStop X 2.2 

Protects your Mac from outside attack
 Easy-to-use interface means less chance of mistakes
 Logs both allowed and denied access attempts
 Enhances OS X's "built-in" firewall

 License : Demo, $39
 Author/Publisher : Open Door Networks
 Modification Date : November 2, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 6.9 MB

 Home Page 

 Firewall Builder 2.1.16 

Firewall Builder is a multi-platform firewall configuration and management
tool. It consists of a GUI and set of policy compilers for various
firewall platforms. Firewall Builder uses object-oriented approach, it
helps administrator maintain a database of network objects and allows
policy editing using simple drag-and-drop operations. Firewall Builder
currently supports iptables, ipfilter, OpenBSD PF and Cisco PIX.
Technical summary of features supported by the policy compilers for all
platforms can be found in the section "Modules" (see menu on the left).

Being truly vendor-neutral, Firewall Builder can generate a configuration
file for any supported target firewall platform from the same policy
created in its GUI. This provides for both consistent policy management
solution for heterogeneous environments and possible migration path.

 License : Shareware, $50
 Author/Publisher : NetCitadel LLC
 Modification Date : December 20, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 9.8 MB

 Home Page 

 Flying Buttress 1.4 

As Apple's built-in Firewall preferences improves in both functionality and security, I will be aiming Flying Buttress more at users who need the advanced firewall configuration, logging, and IP sharing options found in Flying Buttress.
There is no reason that a new or inexperienced user cannot use Flying Buttress, but Apple's own Firewall preferences will likely remain a simpler interface for configuring a basic firewall.
However, if you need:
 - Firewall filters that include qualifiers on host or network addresses
 - Firewall filters that operate on other than TCP or UDP protocols
 - Firewall filters that include the whole range of ipfw qualifiers, such as IP options, ICMP types or TCP flags
 - Per-filter logging configuration, including the ability to log allowed connections and the option to not log certain types of denied connections
 - NAT port forwarding or other custom NAT configuration
 - Different filter configurations on different network interfaces.
 - A persistant, searchable firewall log entry database with graphical log viewer
 - Scriptable control of your firewall, such as via cron or other shell automation
 - Access and ability to easily edit the raw firewall configuration text, including an integrated ipfw filter syntax checker.
 - The ability to switch between different firewall configuration sets quickly and easily.
...then you should consider using Flying Buttress.

 License : Shareware, $25
 Author/Publisher : Brian Hill
 Modification Date : December 31, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.5 MB

 Home Page 

 GlowWorm FW 1.5.2 

GlowWorm FW Lite - can help you protect your privacy by enabling you to
control your computer at the network level.

Through a simple system of Rules (see screenshot on the right) you can
easily define the behavior that is acceptable on the basis of a
particular application, host or ip address, port number, and any
combination thereof, and what action to take if such an event occurs. A
default set of rules is included to get you started.

GlowWorm FW Lite is a completely free download. A more sophisticated
(non-free) version is planned, and feedback received regarding this free
version will help guide development. Mac OS X 10.4 is required to use
GlowWorm FW Lite.
 What are Rules?
 Rules are a means by which one can impose network restrictions upon the
applications on one's computer. Each Rule specifies one of the actions:
Allow, Deny, Ask. If a network event matches on an "Ask" rule, an
authorization dialog window will appear, it will show you the details of
the event (the application name, the remote IP address, port number,
approximate geographic location, etc.) and based on that information you
can make a decision about whether or not to allow it. By customizing the
set of rules to strictly match the specifics of your computer use, you
can have an extra level of security in place, which can alert you if an
application starts doing something unexpected ("phoning home"), or a
malicious program tries to contact another computer.

 License : Shareware, $30
 Author/Publisher : Curtis Jones
 Modification Date : February 15, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 2.9 MB

 Home Page 

 GnuPG 1.4.8 

Mac GNU Privacy Guard (Mac GPG for short) is, after a fashion, the Mac
OS X port of GnuPG, licensed under the GNU GPL. The aims of the project
are to make GnuPG easy to install, develop a framework to make it easy
for other developers to incorporate GnuPG functionality into their
applications, write services to allow for the use of GnuPG functions in
most Cocoa applications, and write a Mac GPG Keys type application so
that you no longer have to go to the commandline to manage your keys.
For those who don't know, GnuPG is a free OpenPGP client (PGP == Pretty
Good Privacy). It can encrypt text (usually e-mail or other messages
sent between people) and sign text to prove who wrote it. A further
discussion of this can be found elsewhere.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Mac GPG Project
 Modification Date : December 20, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 10.6 MB

 Home Page 

 GPGMail 1.1.2 

GPGMail is a plug-in for Apple's Mail, providing a front-end to gpg for
some operations. It allows you to read/write encrypted messages, as well
as electronically signed messages.

GPGMail extends Apple's Mail application and allows you to read and send
PGP authenticated and/or encrypted messages. You can use GPGMail for
plain text and MIME messages, following RFC 3156.

GPGMail does not contain any encryption code: it is a client to gpg executable.

GPGMail is a complete hack, relying on Mail's private internal API. Use it at your own risks!

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Stephane Corthesy
 Modification Date : February 5, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher, GnuPG - Not Compatible with Leopard

 Download 
File Size: 2.1 MB - for Mac OS X 10.4.x

 Download 
File Size: 1.5 MB - for Mac OS X 10.3.x

 Home Page 

 Gpg Tools 1.2.1 

Gpg Tools is a Mac OS X graphical interface to the GNU Privacy Guard
(GPG) utility. It provides approximately the functionality of the old
PGPtools, and is freeware.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Tom Sutcliffe
 Modification Date : January 3, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher, GnuPG 

 Download 
File Size: 311 Kb

 Home Page 

 HenWen 2.1.2 

HenWen is a network security package for Mac OS X that makes it easy to
configure and run Snort, a free Network Intrusion Detection System
(NIDS). HenWen's goal is to simplify setting up and maintaining software
that will scan network traffic for undesirable traffic a firewall may
not block. Everything you need to have is bundled in; there is no
compiling or command line use necessary.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Nick Zitzmann
 Modification Date : June 19, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.7 MB

 Home Page 

 Hide-Out! 2.1 

Hide-Out! is a very simple Freeware application which allows you to take
advantage of Mac OS X's ability to hide a folder by putting a full point
in front of its name. Hide-Out! will allow you to do this easily without
having to use the terminal application and it now sets the invisible bit
on the folder too, keeping it hidden in Mac OS 9. So if you have some
stuff that you'd like to keep away from prying eyes, you can now keep it
in your Hide-Out!

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Space Software
 Modification Date : July 15, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 890 Kb

 Home Page 

 iAlertU 0.29b 

iAlertU is the first of its kind alarm system for your Apple MacBook computer. Basically
iAlertU is a car alarm for your Mac. iAlertU uses the built in sudden motion sensor (SMS)
device to detect movement of your MacBook and triggers an audible and visual alarm. The
alarm can also be triggered by keyboard and mouse/trackpad movement. The alarm is
designed to continue sounding even after the MacBook screen has been closed. iAlertU is
activated and deactivated using the infrared remote control inlcluded with every MacBook
computer. User adjustable settings let you decide which type of alarm triggers you would
like to use, the duration of the alarm, and motion sensor sensitivity. iAlertU also
features functionality to utilize the built in iSight camera to photograph the would be
thief.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : SlappingTurtle
 Modification Date : December 17, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher, MacBook

 Download 
File Size: 752 Kb

 Home Page 

 InVisibles 1.4.3 

Just double-click the InVisibles icon, click "Visible" to make all of
the invisible files become visible files. If you have carried out
whatever processes you need to, double-click the InVisible icon again
and this time click "Invisible" to make them all invisible again.

 License : Mailware
 Author/Publisher : Tice
 Modification Date : June 28, 2003
 Requirements : Mac OS X

 Download 
File Size: 134 Kb

 Home Page 

 IPNetRouterX 1.2.3 

IPNetRouterX is a powerful router, firewall, and network management
utility including NAPT with inbound port mapping, a built-in DHCP
Server, AirPort configuration tool, bandwidth accounting, and rate
limiting.

Using IPNetRouterX you can share a network connection among multiple
users, provide DHCP service, configure an AirPort software base station,
allocate network bandwidth to match business priorities, audit network
usage, and secure your LAN against undesirable traffic or network abuse.

IPNetRouterX includes the complete IP filtering engine from
IPNetSentryX, extending its flexibility to the entire LAN.

 License : Demo, $100
 Author/Publisher : Peter Sichel/Sustainable Softworks 
 Modification Date : December 27, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 4.7 MB - version 1.2.3

 Download 
File Size: 1.4 - PPC version 1.4

 Parent Directory 

 Home Page 

 IPNetSentryX 1.5.1 

IPNetSentryX is an advanced firewall intrusion detector that includes bandwidth
allocation, bandwidth accounting, Ethernet bridging, AirPort configuration, automatic
failover, and detailed logging. IPNetSentryX supplements and is fully compatible with
Apple's own firewall in OSX while providing additional capability to solve network
problems users may encounter.

Unlike most other Internet security products, IPNetSentryX offers basic protection without
erecting barriers for the safe use of your Internet connection. There is no need to "punch
holes" in a firewall for specific applications you may wish to run. Instead, IPNetSentryX
silently and intelligently watches for suspicious behavior, and when triggered, invokes a
solid filter which completely bans the potential intruder from your Macintosh. The
advantage is you don't need a network expert to configure your firewall or debug
compatibility conflicts.

 License : Demo, $60
 Author/Publisher : Peter Sichel/Sustainable Softworks 
 Modification Date : December 28, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 3.8 MB - version 1.5.1

 Download 
File Size: 1.9 MB - version 1.2.05 - for Jaguar and Panther

 Download 
File Size: 1.5 - PPC version 1.4

 Parent Directory 

 Home Page 

 iROT13 1.0 

iROT13 is a simple and easy to use program for encoding and decoding
text that is in the ROT13 format. You can copy and paste text directly
into the application for conversion, open a file and convert it and save
converted text to a file.

Note: ROT13 encoding is NOT secure encryption. It simply renders text
into a garbled form that is not readable by humans. However, anyone with
the right program or programming skill can decode content that is in the
ROT13 format.

That said, iROT13 makes ROT13 encoding and decoding on OS X simple and easy. And best of all, it's free.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : David Giffin
 Modification Date : November 9, 2004
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 44 Kb

 Home Page 

 iSafe 1.8 

Now you can keep your credit card numbers, bank account information,
software serial numbers, web based usernames and passwords and more all
in one convenient place.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : CodeFuzion
 Modification Date : December 22, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.5 MB

 Home Page 

 iSteg 1.5 

Steganography encryption tool.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : hanynet.com
 Modification Date : December 18, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 289 Kb

 Home Page 

 JAP 00.08.086 

Without Anonymization, every computer in the internet communicates using a traceable Address. That means:
 the website visited,
 the internet service provider (ISP),
 and any eavesdropper on the internet connection
 can determine which websites the user of a specific computer visits.
Even the information which the user calls up can be intercepted and seen
if encryption is not used.
 Info: Leaving a data trail online...
 JAP uses a single static address which is shared by many JAP users. That
way neither the visited website, nor an eavesdropper can determine which
user visited which website.
 How it works
 Instead of connecting directly to a webserver, users take a detour,
connecting with encryption through several intermediaries, so-called
mixes.
 Attention! The first release of JAP is downloadable free of charge and
already protects your privacy against most observers like your ISP, your
network operator, or your boss. However, this version does not yet
achieve the full security and anonymity that we strive for. It does not
protect you against an adversary who has the capability to observe all
communication links on the Internet.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : JAP Team
 Modification Date : August 1, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 6.0 MB

 Home Page 

 JuhOS X 1.0 

JuhOS X is a simple and free utility to view invisible files, and to make them visible too!

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Juho Ruohola
 Modification Date : January 19, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 2.4 MB

 Home Page 

 Keysgen 1.1.2 

Keysgen is an advanced key generator, designed for IT managers.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Luc-Olivier Gouedart Lafeuille
 Modification Date : February 14, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 66 KB - version 1.1.2

 Home Page 

 Knox 1.5.3 

Store your files in encrypted, secure vaults. Backup your personal
vaults onto your iPod. Your business vaults to the company server. All
automatic, all secure.

 License : Demo, $30
 Author/Publisher : Marko Karppinen & Co.
 Modification Date : November 14, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 3.6 MB

 Home Page 

 Little Snitch 2.0.1 

Little Snitch is an application supervisor. It watches all running
applications and brings up an alert panel when an application tries to
establish a network connection. You can either allow the connection,
deny it or store a permanent rule for similar future-connections.

 License : Shareware, $25
 Author/Publisher : Objective Development
 Modification Date : December 4, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 2.1 MB

 Home Page 

 LockOut 5.2.3 

 LockOut can call your cell phone if someone attempts to break into your Mac.
 Resistant to system commands such as force-quit and command-tab.
 People can leave messages for you.
 When used with Apple's Open Firmware Password application, no one can
reboot from another volume without first entering your password.
 And more.

 License : Shareware, $15
 Author/Publisher : Modesitt Software
 Modification Date : July 22, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 441 Kb

 Home Page 

 MacEncrypt 2.0 

MacEncrypt will allow you to encrypt files using the "Data Encryption
Standard." Encrypted files can only be used if you know the password.
Groups of files can also be encrypted into an encrypted archive.
MacEncrypt can be placed on the desktop next to the trash can and files can
simply be dropped on top of it to be encrypted.

 License : Shareware, $10
 Author/Publisher : J. Clarke Stevens
 Modification Date : May 5, 1993
 Requirements : 680x0

 Download 
File Size: 43 Kb

 MacPasser 1.4.2 

MacPasser is a small and easy-to-use password rememberer (passer). Simply put, is it an application that remembers
account information. You can enter the name of the services, your login names, your passwords and other information
specific to each service. The information can then be saved either as an unlocked file or as a secured, encrypted file.
An average user can not break the encryption, but a hacker can probably do it. If you want to give your files greater
security I suggest you use a special application for that purpose.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Kim Alstrom
 Modification Date : July 24, 2000
 Requirements : PPC

 Download 
File Size: 604 Kb

 Home Page 

 Mac Password Generator 1.0 

You can dramatically increase the safety of your information by using strong passwords for
all your online accounts. The SANS Technology Institute of Top 20 Internet Security
Vulnerabilities consistently points to weak passwords as one of greatest contributers to
information theft. To help aid your security, Mac Password Generator allows you to
generate strong passwords easily.

Random passwords are wonderful for security, but they are nearly impossible to remember.
Passwords that use dictionary-based words are much easier to remember, but they are easier
to crack. Mac Password Generator allows you to decide which solution is best for you and
provides both password generation algorithms.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Agile Web Solutions
 Modification Date : August 8, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 243 Kb

 Home Page 

 Make-A-Pass 2.4 

Make-A-Pass generates secure, random passwords with the click of a
button! This widget is highly configurable.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Andrew Hedges
 Modification Date : March 26, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 74 Kb

 Home Page 

 MultiAlarm 3.4.2 

MultiAlarm is a security tool that is used to defend against unauthorized people
using a machine locally or stealing the machine.

When the alarm is armed, depending on the configuration, the movement of
the laptop or mouse and keyboard will set a sound alarm and perform other alerts.

Once the alarm is primed all you have to do to test that it is working is pick the laptop
up or use the mouse and keyboard and the following should occur depending on your
preferences:
 - Play a audible event
 - Growl Notification
 - Email a specified email
 - Run external applescript
 - Activate Screen-Lock
 - Take a picture using iSight
 - Upload iSight Image

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : semaja2
 Modification Date : January 10, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher, Mac with SMS Sensor (MacBooks and later iBooks)

 Download 
File Size: 1.8 MB

 Home Page 

 MindFortress 1.5 

MindFortress is a multi-media knowledge base app for the Mac OS X
platform. Use it for a Digital Wallet, a Notebook, a Serial Number
storage, and Password storage. With 28 built in cards and an unlimited
number of custom cards - you can make it anything you want it to be!

 License : Shareware, $10
 Author/Publisher : Web Information Solutions
 Modification Date : February 7, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 4.7 MB

 Home Page 

 NetBarrier 10.4.5 

NetBarrier X3 was designed to protect the Macintosh user from the perils of the Internet. Its four-level line of defense provides optimal security so that you can use the Internet without leaving yourself vulnerable to its dangers.
 Including: Personal Firewall; Antivandal; Internet Filter; Monitors

 License : Update, Purchase for $60
 Author/Publisher : Intego
 Modification Date : December 6, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2.8 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 27.6 MB

 Home Page 

 NetShade 3.1.1 

NetShade 2 brings the next level of online privacy and anonymity to the
Mac platform. In addition to a large database of publicly available
proxy servers, NetShade 2 now provides its own dedicated and fully
anonymous proxy.

NetShade is an Internet security tool which makes your Web presence
anonymous and secure.

Control your web routing through one straightforward console
Instead of your web connection going directly from your machine to the
website you're visiting, it is automatically routed through an Internet
proxy server. NetShade lets you connect to the Internet in one of three
ways:
 Direct Connection: No anonymity, no proxy is used.
 Public Proxy: NetShade selects a publicly-available proxy server from
its daily-updated list. These servers are located around the world and
provide good anonymity, but they are not within NetShade's control and
therefore speed and reliability cannot be assured.
 NetShade Proxy: NetShade connects through its own dedicated anonymous
proxy server located in a Texas datacenter. The NetShade proxy server is
a non-logging, fully anonymous web proxy supporting both HTTP and HTTPS.
This option provides the best speed, reliability and anonymity. The
NetShade proxy is available only to registered users.

 License : Shareware, $29
 Author/Publisher : Rayner Software
 Modification Date : January 10, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher - Not compatible with Firefox or Mozilla

 Download 
File Size: 1.6 MB

 Home Page 

 NetShred 4.1 

Clear Cache, erase history with this easy to use Internet Track Eraser. 
Easy because it runs automatically when you quit from your browser or
email. Fast because it runs in the background while you continue to
browse. Cleaner because it will erase - not just delete - cache,
history, and email trash so it can't be recovered. NetShred works with
most web browsers and email programs.

 License : Shareware, $20
 Author/Publisher : Mireth Technology Corporation
 Modification Date : November 27, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.1 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 2.2 MB

 Home Page 

 1Passwd 2.5.8 

Manage hundreds of passwords with one master key.

Integrated with Safari, OmniWeb, DEVONagent, Firefox, Camino, and Flock.

Automatic form filler outclasses the other AutoFill products.

OS X Keychain integration provides maximum security.

 License : Shareware, $30
 Author/Publisher : Agile Web Solutions
 Modification Date : December 29, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 6.4 MB

 Home Page 

 Passenger 3.6.5 

The Mac server account creation, permissions setting, and password generation tool.
 1. Import Database Text
 2. Name Concatenation
 3. Generate Passwords
 4. Duplicate Checking
 5. Set Account Parameters
 6. Export for Servers & Eudora Clients
 Exports for Mac OS X Server, Macintosh Manager, Eudora client settings
customization and distribution, WebSTAR FTP, WebSTAR Web, Master Spell,
Master Key, and user-defined customized export
 7. Create Folders
 8. Migrate Account Folders
 9. Set Permissions

 License : Shareware, $60
 Author/Publisher : MacinMind Software
 Modification Date : July 18, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 5.9 MB

 Home Page 

 PassGenX 1.0 

PassGenX generates passwords containing up to thirteen digits or
characters, and defaults to an eight alphanumeric password. It uses a
random function to generate a password and puts this password in a field
used to copy and paste into your password field for your service.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Steve Muncy
 Modification Date : August 8, 2001
 Requirements : Mac OS X and Mac OS 8.6 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 684 Kb

 Home Page 

 PasswordPress 1.2 

PasswordPress helps you determine what your next password should be.
However, PasswordPress only makes new passwords for you. It doesn't
store passwords anyplace; it doesn't remember what password it gave you
last. Nothing too fancy (plus, most operating systems have better means
of storing passwords such as Mac OS X and its Keychain).

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Unearthed Ruminator
 Modification Date : May 3, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 151 Kb

 Home Page 

 PasswordWallet 4.3.2 

PasswordWallet is a convenient, easy to use, secure place to store all
your usernames, passwords, PINs, or combinations. It just doesn't get
any easier than this!
 - PasswordWallet has a tight user interface that allows you to use your passwords as quickly and as painlessly as possible.
 - Our unique Auto-typing technology is more secure than copying your password to the clipboard.
 - Use Auto-typing to enter multiple usernames and passwords across multiple web pages.
 - For security, PasswordWallet uses the BlowFish encryption algorithm with 448-bit keys to protect your data. For safety, PasswordWallet can copy your password to the clipboard and clear it automatically after you paste.
 - Keep your master password in the Mac OS X keychain.

PasswordWallet for Macintosh 4.x (sold separately) now includes the ability to export your passwords to your iPhone. You can view your passwords anywhere and at any time on your iPhone while still keeping them protected by PasswordWallet's powerful 448-bit blowfish encryption and your master password.
 - PasswordWallet for Mac encrypts all of your data with 448-bit blowfish, and then bundles this encrypted data together with the software necessary to access it on your iPhone.
 - PasswordWallet for Mac exports this password-protected bundle to a special bookmark in Safari that can then be synchronized to your iPhone with iTunes.
 - Open this bookmark in Safari on your iPhone and you'll have access to all your passwords on your iPhone! (After you enter your master password, of course!)
 - Yes, this really works!!
 - For now the data on the iPhone is read-only. So only data from your Mac can be copied to your iPhone.

 License : Shareware, $12.50, Acitvate for iPhone $7.50
 Author/Publisher : Selznick Scientific Software
 Modification Date : December 20, 2007
 Requirements :Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 2.6 MB

 Home Page 

 Pastor 1.7.5 

Pastor is a tool to store all your passwords, website logins, program
serial numbers, etc. RC4-encrypted and password-protected. With built-in
password generator.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Markus Mehlau
 Modification Date : October 26, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 3.1 MB

 Home Page 

 Permanent Eraser 2.3.3 

When you normally delete your files in Mac OS X, the operating system is only forgetting
where those particular files are placed, while the data still physically remains on the
drive. Beginning with Mac OS 10.3, Apple enhanced its security by introducing the Secure
Empty Trash feature, which follows the U.S. DoD pattern of overwriting data seven times.

Permanent Eraser provides an even stronger level of security by implementing the Gutmann
Method. This utility overwrites your data thirty-five times, scrambles the original file
name, and truncates the file size to nothing before Permanent Eraser finally unlinks it
from the system. Once your data has been erased, it can no longer be read through
traditional means.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : EdenWaith
 Modification Date : December 30, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 435 Kb

 Home Page 

 PGP Desktop 9.7 

PGP Desktop Home 9.7 provides individuals a simple, easy-to-use desktop
encryption solution to protect confidential communications and digitally
stored information. It is designed for individuals who want to secure
private email, selected files, and AOL Instant Messenger (AIM) traffic.

PGP Desktop Professional 9.7 provides comprehensive data protection for
individual desktops, allowing organizations to protect the sensitive
business information of critical users without disrupting current
business processes. This award-winning, easy-to-use solution secures
email, files, virtual volumes, and even entire disks from a single
desktop application.

 License : Demo, Home $99 - Pro $149
 Author/Publisher : PGP Corporation
 Modification Date : December 19, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 33.3 MB

 Home Page 

 Safe Place 2.2.3 

Safe Place is a Macintosh application designed to securely store your
passwords, credit card numbers, software activation codes, or any other
information you want to keep handy and safe from prying eyes.

 License : Shareware, $10
 Author/Publisher : Mere Mortal Software
 Modification Date : September 14, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 9.0 MB

 Home Page 

 SecretBook 3.2 

SecretBook is an encrypted password database for Mac OS X. It allows you
to easily and safely store all those little bits of information like
passwords and software licenses.

 License : Shareware, $10
 Author/Publisher : Information Graphics
 Modification Date : December 18, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 2.4 MB

 Home Page 

 SecretService 0.3 

A nifty app that lets you make files and folders invisible by simply
dropping them on a small picture on the desktop. It let's you access
those hidden files after you entered your password.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Robert Kuilman
 Modification Date : October 28, 2003
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 123 Kb

 Home Page 

 The Serial Keeper 2.1 

The Serial Keeper saves any type of information you can dream up! From
serial numbers for software, credit card and bank account information,
to everything in between.

 License : Shareware, $10
 Author/Publisher : Steven Byrd
 Modification Date : July 17, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.1 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 2.3 MB

 Download 
File Size: 2.4 MB

 Download 
File Size: 917 Kb

 Home Page 

 Show Hide Invisible Files 1.5 

 What's different about this utility:
 While other scripts quit as soon as you select "Show the Invisible files" - then you must find the script again.
 This script reads the state of your invisible files and displays another dialog box until you are finished.
 This makes things much easier, especially if you're accessing the script through Spotlight.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : J.T. AppleScripts
 Modification Date : December 21, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 70 Kb

 Home Page 

 ShredIt X 5.8 

ShredIt X shreds everything - including files, folders, disk free space,
files you've already deleted, hard drives, external hard drives, CDRWs
and even floppy drives.

 License : Shareware, $25
 Author/Publisher : Mireth Technology Corp.
 Modification Date : October 31, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 

 Download 
File Size: 2.8 MB

 Home Page 

 SimpleAuthority 2.1 

SimpleAuthority is a free Certification Authority (CA). It generates
keys and certificates that provide cryptographic digital identities for
a community of people and/or computer servers. These identities are
designed to be used in other applications for security purposes within
this community.

SimpleAuthority is designed to be very easy to use and does not require
an external database or similar supporting components. It is built on
The Legion of the Bouncy Castle cryptographic library.

SimpleAuthority can be used to generate keys and certificates for:
 - Secure email - for digital signing and encryption of email
 - VPN access - to provide a much higher level of security than username/password access
 - Client SSL authentication - to authenticate a person to a Web Server, such as to restrict access to a subversion repository or other online content, and
 - Server SSL authentication - to authenticate a Web Server to people within the community.

 License : Shareware, $50
 Author/Publisher : Paul Cuthbert
 Modification Date : November 4, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 5.7 MB

 Home Page 

 Snort 2.6.1.2 

In 1998, Martin Roesch wrote an open source technology called Snort, which he termed a
"lightweight" intrusion detection technology in comparison to commercially available
systems. Today that moniker doesn't even begin to describe the capabilities that Snort
brings to the table as the most widely deployed intrusion prevention technology worldwide.
Over the years Snort has evolved into a mature, feature rich technology that has become
the de facto standard in intrusion detection and prevention. Recent advances in both the
rules language and detection capabilities offer the most flexible and accurate threat
detection available, making Snort the "heavyweight" champion of intrusion prevention.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Sourcefire, Inc
 Modification Date : December 7, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X

 Download 
File Size: 3.3 MB

 Home Page 

 SplashID 3.32 

SplashID safely and securely stores all of your sensitive personal
information in a secure, encrypted database that is quickly accessible
on your handheld and desktop computer. SplashID organizes and protects
all of your user names, passwords, credit cards, PINs, and more in one
convenient location.

 License : Shareware, $20
 Author/Publisher : SplashData
 Modification Date : June 28, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X

 Download 
File Size: 1.0 MB Standalone

 Download 
File Size: 1.8 MB for Palm OS

 Home Page 

 Steel 1.1.7 

Does the world really need another password organizer? The answer is a
resounding yes. Steel works much like other products in this category,
allowing you to store and search personal information, but does so with
a simplified, familiar iApp interface.

 License : Shareware, $9
 Author/Publisher : Gabriele de Simone
 Modification Date : November 1, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.3 MB

 Home Page 

 Stego 1.0a2 

A steganography tool. Stego is a tool that enables you to embed data in, and retrieve 
data from, Macintosh PICT format files, without changing the 
appearance or size of the PICT file. Stego can be used as an "envelope" 
to hide a previously encrypted data file in a PICT file, 
making it much less likely to be detected.

 License : Shareware, $15 or any stegosaur
 Author/Publisher : Romana Machado/Paradigm Shift Research
 Modification Date : November 28, 1993
 Requirements : 680x0

 Download 
File Size: 181 Kb

 sunShield Pro 2.0.3L 

sunShield Pro is a GUI that enables a user to configure ipfw, the
interface to the packet filtering firewall that sits in the kernel.
Although it is designed to be as simple as possible, giving access to
(almost) full potential of ipfw2 on a single pane requires some
knowledge about firewall rules.

sunShield Pro however now supports rules packs, sunShield EXchange
files, that apply a bunch of rules to match a typical configuration,
along wiht the templates for specific services.

 License : Shareware, $55
 Author/Publisher : Sunprotecting Factory
 Modification Date : November 9, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.5 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 573 Kb

 Home Page 

 Tor 0.1.2.18a 

Tor: An anonymous Internet communication system
 Tor is a toolset for a wide range of organizations and people that want
to improve their safety and security on the Internet. Using Tor can help
you anonymize web browsing and publishing, instant messaging, IRC, SSH,
and other applications that use the TCP protocol. Tor also provides a
platform on which software developers can build new applications with
built-in anonymity, safety, and privacy features.
 Your traffic is safer when you use Tor, because communications are
bounced around a distributed network of servers, called onion routers.
Instead of taking a direct route from source to destination, data
packets on the Tor network take a random pathway through several servers
that cover your tracks so no observer at any single point can tell where
the data came from or where it's going. This makes it hard for
recipients, observers, and even the onion routers themselves to figure
out who and where you are. Tor's technology aims to provide Internet
users with protection against "traffic analysis," a form of network
surveillance that threatens personal anonymity and privacy, confidential
business activities and relationships, and state security.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Roger Dingledine & Nick Mathewson
 Modification Date : October 31, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 14.4 MB

 Downloads 

 Install Instructions 

 Home Page 

 Tresor 2.2.2 

Tresor is a file and folder encryption application for Macintosh. It
combines high cryptographic security and ease of use. Integrated
compression functions allow compression and encryption in a single pass,
without any interim files. Filter functions allow you to automate
complex encryption tasks without the use of risky scripts. Being
developed outside the US, Tresor is available in all countries that
allow cryptography.

Tresor encrypts the complete content of any file using IDEA block
encryption. It takes a passphrase of arbitrary length and produces a
160-bit hash value using the Secure Hash Algorithm (SHA). It then takes
128 bits of this hash value, using them as the encryption key for IDEA.
For decryption the same passphrase will be needed again.

 License : Shareware, $32
 Author/Publisher : Roland Blaser
 Modification Date : October 14, 2004
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.1 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 2.7 MB

 Home Page 

 Undercover 1.5 

 Installation
 Upon installation, you'll receive an Undercover ID that's unique for the Mac you are
installing.
 Routine checks
 When your Mac is online, Undercover checks our database every six minutes to verify
whether the Mac it is running on is in our database of stolen Macs. If it's not, nothing
happens and no data will be transfered from your Mac to our server.
 In case of theft
 As soon as your Mac is stolen, you send us the Undercover ID you received upon
registration. We will add this code to our database of stolen Macs.
 The first phase
 The next time your stolen Mac goes online (using dial-up, WiFi, ethernet, Bluetooth, ...)
it will notice that its Undercover ID is included in our database of stolen Macs. This
will initiate the first phase, in which Undercover will send both network information and
screenshots of your stolen Mac. The network information enables us to work with the
network administrators of the ISP the thief is connected to. Since ISPs consider computer
theft as network abuse, they will uncover the thief's identity. Together with law
enforcement, we work to recover the Mac. If your Mac has a built-in iSight, or if the
thief attached an external iSight, Undercover will send iSight pictures of the thief.
Think of it as running Photo Booth in the background.
 Plan B
 If law enforcement fails to recover the stolen Mac, Undercover switches to plan B. In this
mode, Undercover will simulate a screen failure, slowly making the Mac's screen unusable.

 License : Shareware, $30
 Author/Publisher : Orbicule
 Modification Date : February 2, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.8 MB

 Home Page 

 Wallet 2.6.1 

Wallet is the most secure, elegant, and easy way to store and organize your passwords, serial numbers, credit cards, and much more.

 License : Shareware, $15
 Author/Publisher : Waterfall Software
 Modification Date : January 3, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 2.3 MB

 Home Page 

 WaterRoof 2.0 

WaterRoof is an IPFW firewall frontend for Mac OS X with an easy interface and many
options. Features include dynamic rules, bandwidth management, pre-defined rule sets and a
wizard for easy configuration. You can also watch logs and statistics. Rules
configurations and network options can be saved and optionally activated at boot time.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : haneynet.com
 Modification Date : December 13, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.5 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.7 MB

 Home Page 

 Web Confidential 3.7.6 

Web Confidential uses an intuitive, easy-to-use cardfile metaphor which
will enable even novice users to get up to speed in no time. Power users
will find a large number of options to enable them to configure Web
Confidential to meet their specific needs.

Web Confidential gives you access to your passwords from within your
browser and from the Mac OS X Dock. When you need access to a user ID
and password, a handy floating utility window shows all the information
you might need about your password.

Web Confidential for Palm is a solution to keep your data secure while
you travel with your Palm and need access to your confidential data.

Web Confidential for Windows completes the set of programs. Its file
format is binary compatible with the Macintosh version.

Web Confidential for Palm is supplied with a Conduit for Mac or Windows,
so that you can synchronize your data with your desktop computer.

 License : Shareware, $20
 Author/Publisher : Alco Blom
 Modification Date : November 13, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher and Mac OS 8 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 4.5 MB

 Download 
File Size: 481 Kb

 Home Page 

 Wizzard 1.2 

Wizzard allows you to toggle visibility of hidden Files/Folders with one click.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Mistatree.org
 Modification Date : April 30, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 401 MB

 Home Page 

 webPM 1.2 

Store frequently used URLs along with user names and passwords.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : smallApps by dani
 Modification Date : August 18, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.1 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 693 Kb

 Home Page 

 Xaes 1.8 

A cocoa implementation of the Aes standard, using Dr Brian Gladman's C 
implementation of the Rijndael algorithm.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Stephane Leon
 Modification Date : April 14, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.1 MB

 Home Page 

 Xray 1.1 

XRay is a much-expanded version of the Finder's "Get Info" window.
Select any item in the Finder and press Command-Shift-X, or simply drag
any file, folder, application, or volume onto XRay's icon, and you'll
get a information window. All enabled flags and fields can be edited; if
necessary, XRay will ask for an Administrator password to change files
you normally wouldn't be able to modify. You can also XRay a file from
the Finder, using the included Contextual Menu, or from any XRay window
by opening the built-in browser drawer.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Rainer Brockerhoff
 Modification Date : August 5, 2004
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.1 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.6 MB

 Home Page 

 xyzzy 1.0 

Xyzzy is a pronounceable password generator. It is useful for network or
server administrators that find themselves creating new user accounts on
a regular basis and need to come up with passwords for them.

The reasons to use a pronounceable password generator such as xyzzy are
simply because passwords based on dictionary words are easy to crack by
brute force methods, and passwords which are hard to remember usually
need to be written down which makes them vulnerable to being found by
prying eyes.

The passwords generated by xyzzy are easy to remember because they are
pronounceable (usually) and are more secure because they are not
dictionary words. Occasionally one will slip through, but this is very
rare (usually about 1 in every 1000).

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Haxial
 Modification Date : May 1, 2003
 Requirements : Mac OS X and Mac OS 8.6 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 190 Kb

 Home Page 

 Denotes Mac OS X Intel Native 
 Denotes Mac OS X Intel & PPC Native 
 Denotes Mac OS X PPC Native 
 Denotes Mac OS 8/9 PPC Native 
 Denotes Mac OS 680x0 Native 
 Denotes Non-OS Specific Code 

 Back to the Main Page of Pure Mac