Pure Mac: Strategy Games - Software for Macintosh 

 Strategy Games 

 Web 

 Pure-Mac.com 

 Life-Sims 
 Real-Time 
 Real-Time 
 Turn-Based 
 Turn-Based 

 Chocolatier 
 Darwinia 
 Fish Tycoon 
 Guitar Hero III 
 The Movies 
 Nanny Mania 
 RollerCoaster Tycoon 
 SimCity 4 
 The Sims 2 
 Space Colony 
 Theme Park World 
 Tropico 
 Uplink 
 Wildlife Tycoon 

 Age of Empires II 
 Age of Empires III 
 Age of Mythology 
 Battlefield 2142 
 Command & Conquer Generals 
 Commandos 3 
 Ghost Master 
 Hearts of Iron 2 
 Hearts of Iron 2: Doomsday 
 Homeworld 2 
 Imperial Glory 
 KnightShift 

 Myth 
 Myth II 
 Myth III 
 Northland 
 Rise of Nations 
 Robin Hood 
 StarCraft 
 Star Wars: Empire at War 
 Star Wars Galactic Battlegrounds 
 Tribal Trouble 
 Virtual Villagers 
 Warcraft III 
 Warrior Kings 

 Battle for the Universe 
 Battle for Wesnoth 
 Civilization IV 
 Commander 
 DEFCON 
 Empire Master 
 Escape Velocity Nova 
 Freeciv 

 Galactica: Anno Dominari 
 Legion Arena 
 Massive Assault 
 Oolite 
 Spaceward Ho! 
 Star Conquest 
 Ur-Quan Masters 
 Worms 3D 

 If you're looking for strategy games for Mac OS 8/9, check the Classic Strategy Games page. 

 Many servers which serve game files are slow (even if you have a fast connection). Many of these files are large.
 You might want a Download Manager . 

 Pure Mac 
 Games 

 Action 
 Arcade 
 Board 
 Card 
 Emulators 
 Flight Sims 
 Frivolous 
 Game Utilities 
 MMOG 
 Puzzle 
 RPG 
 Sports & Racing 
 Strategy 
 Word 

 Home 

 Astronomy 
 Calculators & Math 
 Charts & Graphs 
 Collections 
 Health 
 Hobbies & Crafts 
 Kid Stuff 
 Language 
 Parental Control 
 Recipes 
 Science 
 Teaching Aids 
 Typing 
 Weather 

 Internet 

 Collaboration 
 Distributed Computing 
 Download Managers 
 Email 
 FTP 
 Internet Utilities 
 iPhone 
 IRC & IM 
 Online Games 
 Peer-to-Peer 
 Radio 
 Remote Access 
 Usenet 
 Video Conferencing 
 VoIP 

 Multimedia 

 Audio 
 CAD 
 Comics 
 DTP 
 eBook 
 Font Utilities 
 Graphics 
 iTunes & MP3 
 Media Center 
 Music 
 Photoshop Plug-ins 
 Presentation 
 3D & Animation 
 Screen Capture 
 Video 

 System 

 Alternative OS 
 Classic OS Updates 
 Command Line 
 Contextual Menus 
 Cross-Platform 
 CSMs 
 Drivers 
 Face-Lift 
 Launchers 
 Olden 
 Screen Savers 
 Security 
 System Enhancements 
 Virus 
 Widgets 
 X11 

 Utilities 

 Backup 
 Business 
 Compression 
 Database 
 Diagnostics 
 Disk & File 
 Finance 
 Handhelds 
 Network 
 PIMs 
 Programming 
 Spreadsheets 
 Stocks 
 Telephony 
 Text Editors 
 Time 

 WWW 

 Auctions 
 Browsers 
 Browser Add-ons 
 The Cloud & SSBs 
 HTML Editors 
 Page Rippers 
 RSS & Podcasting 
 Site Tweaking 
 Social Networking 
 Web Cams 
 Web Graphics 
 Web Server 

 Extension Key 
 Pure Picks 
 Software Index 

 Age of Empires II 1.0.5 

Lead one of the most powerful civilizations of the Middle Ages to
greatness. Raise your armies. Forge alliances. Grow a thriving market
economy. Build wonders to stand the test of time. There are many paths
to power, but only one civilization will reign supreme.
 LEAD ONE OF 13 CIVILIZATIONS
 In Age of Empires II, you can command any one of 13 mighty civilizations. These include
the Franks, Japanese, Byzantines, Vikings, Mongols, Celts and more. Each civilization has
unique attributes, strengths and weaknesses, buildings and technologies, as well as a
unique combat unit based on its historical counterpart. Be sure to try them all to find the
civilization that best suits your playing style.

 License : Update, purchase for $35
 Author/Publisher : Microsoft Corporation/MacSoft
 Modification Date : December 18, 2002
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.0 or higher and Mac OS 8.6 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.9 MB - 1.0.5 Updater

 Home Page 

 Age of Empires III 1.0.4 

Experience the Age of Discovery through amazing 3D graphics. Crush your
enemies with devastating cannons and rifled infantry. Navigate your
naval fleet to claim strategic waterways. Build cities with towering
cathedrals, and forge a thriving empire with a booming economy.

 License : Demo, $55
 Author/Publisher : MacSoft
 Modification Date : July 2, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher, 1.4 GHz or faster, 64 MB Video Card

 Download 
File Size: 420 MB - Demo April 3, 2007

 Download 
File Size: 16.8 MB - Age of Empires III 1.0.4 Updater - July 2, 2008

 Download 
File Size: 9.8 MB - Age of Empires III: Warchiefs 1.0.1 Updater - November 15, 2007

 Home Page 

 Age of Mythology 1.0.1 

The age of mythology. A time when heroes did battle with monsters of
legend and the gods intervened in the affairs of mortal men. Age of
Mythology&reg; is the latest real-time strategy game from Ensemble
Studios&reg;, the creators of the best-selling Age of Empires&reg; and
The Age of Kings&reg;.

Guide one of nine ancient civilizations to greatness by commanding all
aspects of your empire. Advance through four distinct ages. Use
mythological creatures like Minotaurs and Cyclopes to bolster your
army's strength. Immerse yourself in the beautiful world created by the
game's revolutionary new 3D engine.

 License : Demo, purchase for $50
 Author/Publisher : MacSoft
 Modification Date : March 11, 2004
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2.6 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 3.7 MB - 1.0.1 Updater

 Home Page 

 Battlefield 2142 1.50 

Battlefield 2142 takes you into the far future, for all-new warfare in a
world that's familiar but still different. As a new ice age depletes the
planet's resources, two multinational coalitions wage a brutal war for
the only cause that matters - survival. Armed with devastating
futuristic weaponry and gear, plus Battle Walkers and vast airborne
bases called Titans, you must coordinate the efforts to win the war for
Earth's last fragile pieces of livable land.

 License : Free Update, $37
 Author/Publisher : Electronic Arts
 Modification Date : August 1, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4.10 or higher - Intel Only (Cider)

 Download 
File Size: 348.3 MB

 Home Page 

 Battle for the Universe 2.0.2 

BftU is best described as having a look-and-feel similar to that of
Escape Velocity (Ambrosia's popular space game) combined with the
playability of Minotaur (Bungie's first game). BftU includes 3-D
rendered graphics and digitized sounds. You can play BftU against the
computer or against human opponents over a network. Note, the demo has
a time limit, but is otherwise fully functional.

 License : Shareware, $20
 Author/Publisher : Justin and Keith Malkin
 Modification Date : January 14, 2004
 Requirements : Mac OS X and Mac OS 8 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.6 MB

 Download 
File Size: 1.5 MB

 Home Page 

 Battle for Wesnoth 1.4.7 

The Battle for Wesnoth is a free, turn-based strategy game with a
fantasy theme. Fight to regain the throne of Wesnoth, of which you are
the legitimate heir, or use your dread power over the Undead to dominate
the land of mortals, or lead your glorious Orcish tribe to victory
against the humans who dared despoil your lands. Wesnoth has many
different sagas waiting to be played out. You can create your own custom
units, and write your own scenarios - or even full-blown campaigns. You
can also challenge your friends - or strangers - and fight multi-player
epic fantasy battles.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Battle for Wesnoth Team
 Modification Date : December 12, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2.8 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 163 MB

 Home Page 

 Chocolatier 

Oh the gloriously rich and delectable life of a chocolatier! Constantly
surrounded by mounds of chocolate bars and boxes of mouth-watering
truffles! Build your empire one ingredient at a time as you travel the
world to find the best prices and buy factories to maximize production!
Manage your output and please your customersbut dont forget about those
conniving competitors who wish you poorly! Do you have what it takes to
conquer the world through chocolate?

 License : Shareware, $20
 Author/Publisher : Big Fish Games
 Modification Date : June 14, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.1 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 19.7 MB

 Home Page 

 Civilization IV 2.13 

With Sid Meier's Civilization IV, history as you know it, is history.
Rule throughout time and create your own legacy as you guide your
civilization from the dawn of man through the space age and
beyond.Implement new technologies,conduct diplomacy or wage war to grow
your society and become the most powerful leader the world has ever
known.
 Features:
 * 3D Living World
 * Detailed environments where animals roam and smoke billows from small huts, set in a vibrant and colorful world.
 * Overhauled Interface
 * RTS style, intuitive interface allows you to manipulate units and cities with greater control and faster speed.
 * Multiplayer
 * Built from the ground up for multiplayer with Era Starts, variable game speeds, hot join, team play and a bevy of connectivity options: Internet, LAN, Play by Email (PBEM), hot seat and more. The best multiplayer Civ experience ever developed means hundreds of hours of gameplay for you and leaders across the world.
 * Customization
 * An unprecedented level of modding power allows you to customize the units, environments and gameplay to meet your vision, including: a WorldBuilder editor, XML and Python scripting language editing.

 License : Updater, $50
 Author/Publisher : Aspyr
 Modification Date : March 12, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher, 1.8 GHz or faster, Intel integrated video chipsets are not supported (i.e. MacBook and MacMini)

 Download 
File Size: 841 MB - Civilization IV: Warlords 2.13 Demo

 Download 
File Size: 452 Kb - Civilization IV 1.61rC Demo - February 28, 2007

 Download 
File Size: 73.1 MB - 1.74 Updater

 Download 
File Size: 21.6 MB - Warlords 1.0rB Updater

 Warlords Home Page 

 Home Page 

 Command & Conquer Generals 1.0.4 

In a time of modern war, recent military aggressions around the globe
have many nations worried. Between the United States, China, and the
Global Liberation Army, tensions run high. Their leaders profess no
interest in escalating the situation, but words ring hollow when
satellite photos tell a different story.

UNITED STATES: America's military leader must use the world's most
advanced military to root out an elusive foe. Eradicating the cell-based
GLA will take courage, conviction, and the will to see a prolonged
campaign through to the end.

GLOBAL LIBERATION ARMY: Facing superior firepower, the GLA embraces
bio-terrorism, sabotage, and suicide bombings to further its political
agenda. But leading a chaotic group of "freedom" fighters against two
global superpowers will take some doing.

CHINA: No longer just a red-communist step-child, China's modern army is
well financed, with a strong nationalistic bent. Parading technology
like Dragon Tanks and nuclear missiles, China's military goes beyond
simple troop numbers.

Features:
 * Wage real-time war in more ways than ever with a modern and near-future arsenal.
 * Command the powerful U.S. forces, the vast Chinese war machine, or
the resourceful Global Liberation Army.
 * Battle it out in unprecedented detail on full 3D environments.
 * All-new units and tactics with maximum destructive capability, including Aurora Strike Bombers, Dragon Tanks, and much more.
 * Team up with eight friends or go head to-head in massive online multiplayer battles.

 License : Demo, $50
 Author/Publisher : Aspyr Media
 Modification Date : December 6, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 and higher

 Download 
File Size: 362 MB - Demo

 Download 
File Size: 77.2 MB - 1.0.4 Updater - for Command & Conquer Generals and Zero Hour

 Home Page 

 Commander: Europe at War 1.0 

Designed by the wargame experts at Firepower Entertainment and
Slitherine Software, Commander - Europe at War spans World War II,
allowing the player to control the Axis or Allied forces throughout the
entire European Theatre. Can Germany's rise be stopped or will the
jackboots of the SS march through London?

This high level turn-based strategy game offers plenty of depth to
satisfy seasoned wargamers while presenting an interface that's easily
accessible to newcomers as well. Fans of the old "Panzer General" series
will find themselves completely at home as they try to hold the Maginot
Line, march on Moscow, or clear the shipping lanes of Sea Wolves!

 License : Demo, $50
 Author/Publisher : Freeverse
 Modification Date : December 11, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher, 1.4 GHz or faster

 Download 
File Size: 108 MB

 Home Page 

 Commandos 3 1.0.1 

The Commandos Battle Pack brings together on the Mac the two
most recent installments of Pyros's multi-million selling series,
Commandos 2: Men of Courage and Commandos 3: Destination Berlin.
 Set against the dramatic background of World War II, you
control an elite group of Commandos - venturing deep into enemy
territory to carry out the most daring missions of the war.
Your squad must use their combined skills to confound the enemy
and accomplish operations vital to the outcome of WW2.

 License : Demo, $50
 Author/Publisher : Feral Interactive
 Modification Date : March 18, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher, 867 MHz or faster

 Download 
File Size: 261 MB

 Home Page 

 Dawinia 1.4.2 

The world of Darwinia is a virtual themepark, running inside a computer
network built by a computer genius named Dr Sepulveda.

Darwinia is populated by a sentient evolving life form called
"Darwinians." They are the product of a decades worth of research into
genetic algorithms.

Unfortunately, the systems of Darwinia have been overrun by an evil red
Viral Infection. This Virus has multiplied out of control and must be
stopped. Your task is to destroy the Viral Infection and save the
Darwinians from extinction.

 License : Demo, $29
 Author/Publisher : Introversion/Ambrosia
 Modification Date : April 27, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 37.4 MB

 Home Page 

 DEFCON 1.4.2 

DEFCON is a stunning, online, multiplayer strategy simulation based
around the theme of global thermonuclear war. The game, inspired by the
1983 cult-classic WarGames, superbly evokes the tension, paranoia and
suspicion surrounding the Cold War era.

 License : Shareware, $25
 Author/Publisher : Introversion/Ambrosia
 Modification Date : May 3, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 62.1 MB

 Home Page 

 Empire Master 4.1 

Empire Master is a challenging conquer-the-world strategy wargame. You
start with a single city and use it to produce armies to go out and
conquer more cities so you can produce more armies and ships and planes
until you capture the entire world. The only problem (there is always a
problem) is that the machine is also building armies and conquering
cities and fully intends to capture the world for itself.

 License : Demo, $50
 Author/Publisher : Christopher Eliot
 Modification Date : March 19, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X

 Download 
File Size: 716 Kb

 Home Page 

 Escape Velocity Nova 1.0.10 

EV Nova is the third game in the Escape Velocity series, and is by far
the most ambitious installment to date. With a completely redesigned
gaming engine, EV Nova thrusts you into a sprawling universe dominated
by a myriad of warring factions, each sharing a common bond, but so
philosophically different as to make conflict inevitable.

 License : Shareware, $30
 Author/Publisher : Ambrosia
 Modification Date : July 10, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X and Mac OS 8.1 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 91.9 MB - Demo

 Download 
File Size: 33.6 MB - 1.0.10 Update

 EV Nova Files 
 Get files to play the original Escape Velocity and Escape Velocity Overdrive with the Nova Engine

 Home Page 

 Fish Tycoon 1.0 

Fish Tycoon is a fish breeding sim game where you breed and care for
exotic fish in a true real-time virtual aquarium.

The object of this tycoon game is to discover the 7 MAGIC FISH of ISOLA
and solve the genetic puzzle.

You start with a small selection of fish, some money and a tank. You
must breed your fish, care for them, help them grow, and cure them if
they get sick. Along the way you can buy supplies, medicine and special
chemicals; you can research technologies or invest in advertisement. All
of this will be financed by selling exotic hybrids in your shop.

The game runs in TRUE REAL-TIME, so that if your computer is turned off
or you exit the game, hours later small fish will have grown larger and
new surprises await you.

 License : Shareware, $20
 Author/Publisher : LDW Software
 Modification Date : June 7, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 11.7 MB

 Home Page 

 Freeciv 2.1.6 

Freeciv is an open-source, turn-based strategy game that originated from the Linux world.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : freeciv.org
 Modification Date : September 8, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher and X11

 Download 
File Size: 30.2 MB

 Home Page 

 Galactica: Anno Dominari 3.0.1 

A fun and challenging game of galactic colonization and warfare! Use
your superior technology and great fleets of starships to re-unite the
surviving factions of the once great human empire!

Game play in Galactica is a matter of building starships, and using
those ships to colonize the galaxy, protect your territory, and defeat
the other players in combat. Your level of technology is crucial. Higher
levels of technology allow your ships to move faster, and give them an
advantage in combat over ships with lower tech levels. Your star systems
also defend themselves from attacking ships based on their level of
technology.

 License : Shareware, $30
 Author/Publisher : Sacred Tree Software
 Modification Date : April 24, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.1 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 4.2 MB

 Home Page 

 Ghost Master 1.0.2 

Grim spectres, foul fiends, mischievous gremlins, howling banshees...
things that go bump in the night... and that's just your starting team!
This time you are are in charge of the scary guys.

Ghouls, ghosts and goblins are yours to command as you unleash the
undead on the town of Gravenville and scare the wits out of its
citizens. As a dead Civil Servant (is there any other type?) you are
sent to the town of Gravenville by the Haunter Committee. Your mission:
to put the frighteners on lowly living mortals and drive them from their
homes and places of work.

In the world of the Ghost Master spooks do your bidding, as you solve
puzzles and unlock mysteries in a challenge that combines the best of
strategy, adventure, and resource management games.

 License : Update, $30
 Author/Publisher : Feral Interactive
 Modification Date : March 8, 2004
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.1.3 or higher and Mac OS 9.1 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 4.2 MB - 1.0.2 Updater

 Home Page 

 Guitar Hero III 1.3 

Fire up the fretboard, crank up the amp and get ready to rock like never
before. Guitar Hero III drops you into the spotlight of the largest and
most legendary rock concert ever. The star-studded soundtrack includes
more than 70 songs including master tracks such as Even Flow, Welcome to
the Jungle and One.

 License : Free Update, $80 (comes with game guitar)
 Author/Publisher : Aspyr
 Modification Date : May 12, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher - Intel only

 Download 
File Size: 296 MB

 Home Page 

 Hearts of Iron II 1.2 

Hearts of Iron 2 is the sequel to the most appreciated World War II
game of true Grand Strategic scope ever made. As in its forbear, the map
spans the entire world and allows you to play one of over 175 countries
during the course of World War II. The game is completely revised with
an updated combat system, a new map, revised and easy-to-use interface,
new technology tree and hundreds of other updates and improvements.

 License : Free Update, $20
 Author/Publisher : Virtual Programming
 Modification Date : December 5, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 29.3 MB - version 1.2 Updater

 Home Page 

 Hearts of Iron II: Doomsday 1.2 

As the German war machine falls, two great nations rise to claim power.
In the West, there is the United States, leader of the allied nations,
and in the East lies the Soviet Union under communist rule. As both
nations attempt to claim superiority, a new war is waiting around the
corner; this time, the conflict will decide who will be the remaining
superpower.

Play as the ruler of one of 175 countries through World Wars II and III.
As the Allies and the Soviet Union clash in Europe, the fate of the
world hangs in the balance.

In addition to the four grand campaigns (1936, 1939, 1941 and 1944) of
the original game, one extra scenario (1945) has been added. This new
"what if" scenario features a continuation war between the United States
and the Soviet Union. The time limit has also been extended to 1953 and
additional warfare and diplomatic options have been included.

 License : Free Update, $25
 Author/Publisher : Virtual Programming
 Modification Date : December 5, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 8.5 MB - version 1.2 Updater

 Home Page 

 Homeworld 2 1.1.1 

Homeworld 2 continues the epic struggle of the Hiigarans and their
leader Karan S'jet. Many thought their hardships would end when they
returned to Hiigara, yet fate has not been so kind to the Exiles. Now
the Hiigarans face a new and bitter enemy, a renegade clan from the
eastern fringes of the galaxy, who wield the power of the ancients.
Homeworld 2 chronicles the valiant journey of the Mothership and its
crew into the oldest regions of the galaxy to confront their new foe and
discover the truth behind their exile.

 License : Demo, $50
 Author/Publisher : Aspyr
 Modification Date : October 20, 2004
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2.8 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 162 MB MB - Demo

 Download 
File Size: 2.4 MB MB - 1.1.1 Updater

 Home Page 

 Imperial Glory 1.0 

Imperial Glory challenges you to master both political strategy and military tactics in order to make your nation the leading Empire of the Napoleonic age.
The game is a mix of real time strategy and Risk-like diplomatic and political manoeuvring.

 License : Demo, $40
 Author/Publisher : Feral Interactive
 Modification Date : December 8, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher, 1.67 GHz or faster

 Download 
File Size: 807 MB

 Home Page 

 KnightShift 1.2.1 

KnightShift offers the best of conventional RPG and RTS games in a
mystic world, full of fantasy and imagination. The player takes control
over heroes, real (funny) or magic characters and leads them to victory
and honor.

Set in a living fully three dimensional game environment, KnightShift
bewitches your Mac with breathtaking graphics and effects. What this
engine shows you today wasn't seen before in a game - only in some
graphic benchmarks and demos.

The unique combination of RTS and RPG elements in the SP campaigns, the
hardcore gamer dedicated RPG mode for Single and Multiplayer matches and
the unique humor of KnightShift brings real innovation into to days
gaming world.

 License : Demo, $38
 Author/Publisher : Virtual Programming
 Modification Date : July 15, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 432 MB - 1.0 Demo

 Download 
File Size: 6.5 MB - 1.2.1 Updater

 Home Page 

 Legion Arena 1.1.1 

Fans of Roman history, fans of role-playing and strategy games, fans of
Naked Fanatics, will be thrilled with this exciting and incredibly
well-researched game. Legion Arena was designed to maximize fun and
minimize micro-management. The player can jump right in and start
training legions to strike fear into the hearts of his enemies. With a
shallow learning-curve and deep strategy and tactics, Legion Arena is
the ideal game for novice or experienced wargamers.

Legion Arena is a Role Playing Strategy game on a massive scale. Take
control of a small band of warriors and train them to be the mightiest
army in the world! Buy equipment and choose from over 100 skills,
personalize the appearance of your squads, earn experience and denari
for your victories, Legion Arena takes the best elements of Role-Playing
games and puts it in the context of an epic strategic struggle. Play as
either the Romans or the Gauls in over 100 scenarios and with over 20
unique units including Praetorians, Elephants, and Naked Fanatics.
That's right, Naked Fanatics! "Legion Arena is an addictive strategy
game with the best elements of RPG. I love leveling-up, naming my legion
and even choosing the the color of their armor... and then getting right
back to the battle! Slitherine Software did an amazing job developing
this game and we're proud to bring it to the Mac."

 License : Demo, $40
 Author/Publisher : Freeverse
 Modification Date : October 30, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher, 1 Ghz or higher

 Download 
File Size: 228 MB

 Home Page 

 Massive Assault 1.3 

Take the command of the "Free Nations Union (F.N.U.)" and defeat the
secret alliance "Phantom League" on one of 6 distant planets. The war
for global domination will unroll on continents, at sea and in the air.
Lead your divisions, fleets and air squadrons against those, who dared
threaten our freedom and democracy!

 License : Update, $40
 Author/Publisher : Virtual Programming
 Modification Date : March 11, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 7.0 MB - 1.3 Patch

 Home Page 

 The Movies 1.0 

The Movies is a game that let's you build and run your own Hollywood
Studio with all the glamour and headaches that come with it. But, it's
not just a management simulation game, The Movies also gives you the
tools to create your own films from scripting through to editing. You
can even share your creations online.

 License : Demo, $50
 Author/Publisher : Feral Interactive
 Modification Date : January 5, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher, 1.67 GHz or faster

 Download 
File Size: 801 MB

 Home Page 

 Myth: The Fallen Lords 1.5 

The ground-breaking 3D Real Time Strategy Game, Myth: The Fallen Lords.

 License : Demo
 Author/Publisher : Bungie
 Modification Date : December 9, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X and Mac OS 8.6 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 2.0 - 1.5 updater

 Download 
File Size: 31.8 MB - Demo

 Home Page 

 Myth II: Soulblighter 1.6 

Myth II: Soulblighter is a unique strategy game, set in a 3D world of dangerous alliances and
ancient evil, where all beings tremble before the wrath of Soulblighter, cruelest and most cunning
of the evil Fallen Lords.

 License : Update
 Author/Publisher : Bungie
 Modification Date : February 21, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 22.4 MB - 1.6 updater

 Download 
File Size: 48.5 MB - 1.5.1 demo

 Mariusnet.com - You can still play here

 Home Page 

 Myth III: The Wolf Age 1.3.1 

Set 1,000 years before Myth and Myth II, Myth III: The Wolf Age follows
the life of Connacht the Wolf - the legendary hero who saved the
widely-scattered peoples of Humanity from the Myrkridia and the
oppressive Trow to ultimately become the Emperor of all Human lands.
Cast spells, gain experience, collect items and build ingenious devices
to defeat your enemies.

 License : Update
 Author/Publisher : Bungie
 Modification Date : July 6, 2004
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 and higher

 Download 
File Size: 39.9 MB - 1.3.1 updater

 Home Page 

 Nanny Mania 1.0.2 

Think you can manage a household? Think being a stay at home mom is
easy? Nanny Mania puts you in the heart of what it takes to take care of
a regular house. We start you off easy with only on child, and the mom
and Dad to take care of in a small house, but you slowly get better but
the job does not get easier. Try cleaning, cooking, laundry, and taking
care of the parents, 4 kids and a whole heap of trouble. Nanny Mania
will challenge you to keep an eye on your duties and manage your time or
you will not be the Perfect Nanny!

 License : Shareware, $20
 Author/Publisher : Gogii Games
 Modification Date : June 1, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X

 Download 
File Size: 18.3 MB

 Home Page 

 Northland 1.0.1 

In the age of Norse mythology...

Hatschi, the brave Saracen, returned to his home village. Sigurd, the
Frank hero, left the south and set for his way to beloved Franconia.
Bjami and Crya, feeling more than just friendship for each other,
returned back Byzantium to recover from the exertions of their adventure
at the palace of Crya's father, the emperor of Byzantium.

But one day they were disturbed by a call for help from their friend
Hatschi. Hatschi's homeland was plagued by mysterious monstrous serpent
creatures, which spread chaos and destruction through the country.
Without hesitation, Byjami and Crya hurried to help him and stumbled
right into a new adventure, in which the sly god Loki will play an
important role...

Northland combines traditional real-time strategy game play with RPG and
simulation elements into a unique gaming experience. Guide your village
as you help create new jobs, buildings, marriages, children, and more!

 License : Demo, $20
 Author/Publisher : E.P.I.C Interactive/Freeverse
 Modification Date : January 9, 2004
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher and Mac OS 9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 68.0 MB

 Home Page 

 Oolite 1.65 

Oolite is a space sim game, written for Mac OS X in Objective C using
Cocoa and OpenGL.

It was written as my response to the withdrawal of Elite - The New Kind
from the internet. Although inspired by the work of Christian Pinder,
following David Braben and Ian Bell, the work is an independent
interpretation and expansion of the original game.

Oolite is designed as a small game that is easy for independent users to
pick up and expand. Almost every aspect of the game can be modified
using simple, free graphics packages and text-editors.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Giles Williams
 Modification Date : July 17, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 and higher

 Download 
File Size: 21.3 MB

 Home Page 

 Rise of Nations 1.0.1 

Dominate 6,000 years of history...
 ...from the Ancient Age to the
Information Age. Which forces will you deploy to lead your nation to
global prominence? Trade, espionage, diplomacy, war? Whichever path you
choose, you'll experience the pulse pounding thrill and speed of
real-time gaming combined with the epic scope and depth of turn-based
strategy games - brought together for the first time ever in Rise of
Nations.

Rise of Nations is a new historical real time strategy game from Big
Huge Games' Brian Reynolds, designer of game classics such as
Civilization 2 and Alpha Centauri.

 License : Update, $50
 Author/Publisher : Microsoft/MacSoft
 Modification Date : July 18, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 6.4 MB - 1.0.1 Updater

 Home Page 

 Robin Hood - The Legend of Sherwood 1.1 

In Robin Hood - The Legend of Sherwood, you take control of the most
masterful thief to grace the Macintosh computer. Live the action of
Robin Hood, Little John, Friar Tuck and Maid Marian as you engage your
mortal enemy, evil Prince John. Can you save King Richard who is being
held for an enormous ransom?

Scale the castle walls at night to loot under the veil of darkness, or
head on into battle with sword swinging and arrows flying. Utilize all
manner of medieval weapons as you take back what belongs to the people.
Fortunately you are not alone. Robin Hood's trusty band of Merry Men are
always there to fight by your side.

 License : Demo, $30
 Author/Publisher : Spellbound Studios/Freeverse
 Modification Date : December 16, 2004
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 56.5 MB

 Home Page 

 RollerCoaster Tycoon 3 1.2 Rev A 

Experience incredible 3D graphics
 - Ride the Rides with the Coaster Cam
 - Design amazing coasters, place down rides to create the park of your dreams with an easy-to-use new interface
 - Light up the night with the stunning park lighting system
 - View your park from any angle with complete camera control
 - See breathtaking park vistas including realistic sunsets, moonlight and more

 License : Free Updater, Purchase Full Game for $50
 Author/Publisher : Aspyr
 Modification Date : September 8, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher, 1 GHz or faster

 Download 
File Size: 8.4 MB

 Home Page 

 SimCity 4 1.1 Rev A 

The long-awaited 4th generation of the game SimCity, SimCity 4, features
new simulation and graphics engines, new regional game play and the new
ability to track the lives of individual Sims as they go about their
daily routine, SimCity 4 is the most realistic, powerful and personal
SimCity experience ever. Right from the start, players experience new
God-like powers of creation as they lay the groundwork for their cities
by molding mountains, carving valleys, seeding forests and laying
rivers. With these new landscape creation features, players can now
construct the most realistic metropolis imaginable. Each city a player
creates becomes part of an ever-growing tapestry of municipalities that,
once connected by transportation networks, share and compete for
resources. Depending upon the choices made by a player, this multi-city
game play can result in a variety of outcomes within that region. For
the first time ever, players can follow a Sim as they go about their
life in the city. Players can personalize their Sim and immediately move
him or her into any area and watch them experience life in the city,
first hand. Is he or she enjoying a happy existence in an urban utopia
or enduring a futile fight for survival in the inner-city?

 License : Free Updater, $60
 Author/Publisher : Aspyr Media
 Modification Date : April 23, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2.8 or higher - Not Leopard Compatible

 Download 
File Size: 12.8 MB - SimCity 4 Rush Hour Universal Binary 1.1 Rev A

 Home Page 

 The Sims 2 

With the introduction of genetics, you can control your sims over a
lifetime and pass their sims' DNA down from one generation to the next.
The sims evolve by genetically passing on physical and personality
traits. Create and play your own virtual sitcom by choosing one of five
different aspirations - Popularity, Fortune, Family, Knowledge, and
Romance. These aspirations in life cause your sims to have wants and
fears. Will you give them a long successful existence or leave their
life in shambles? The Sims 2 also opens up endless new creative
possibilities. Make your own sim films with the new movie-making
feature. Create the cast, set the stage, take control of the camera and
capture your own screenplay in action. Zoom in close with the new camera
to see every last detail.

 License : Updater, $45 for full game
 Author/Publisher : Aspyr
 Modification Date : December 14, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 166 MB - The Sims 2 Combo Patch - Fully updates all expansion packs to their latest version

 Home Page 

 Space Colony 1.0 

Save the Colony! Your staff are brawling, the Harvester Robot is chain
sawing its way through the oxygen supply and small furry aliens have
taken over the disco. This is home. Each unique personality has a mind
of its own so remember happy colonists make for productive colonists.
Ignore them and they'll pick fights, argue, get depressed, and
eventually go crazy. Nurture them and they will work hard for you,
become friends and maybe even fall in love! With over 100 buildings at
your disposal, it's up to you to build a colony that meets all the
colonists' needs and keeps them safe and happy. So before you shell out
all your credits on iron extraction and space chicken productions to
bring in the cash, remember, that without a gym, a sauna or a half
decent restaurant, nobody's going to want to work for you.

 License : Demo, $30
 Author/Publisher : Aspyr
 Modification Date : June 7, 2004
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2.8 or higher, 733MHz or faster

 Download 
File Size: 124 MB - Demo

 Home Page 

 Spaceward Ho! 5.0.5 

Spaceward Ho! is a strategic game of awesome scope. You control the
entire military and economy of a spacefaring race. Your goal: explore
and colonize the galaxy.

Unfortunately, you are not alone. Alien enemies bent on galactic
conquest will oppose your expansion. You fight them by developing new
technologies and expanding your empire, or you can ally with them to
turn enemies into friends.

Terraform newly discovered worlds or mine their natural resources.
Maneuver your starship fleets, both in defense of your own systems and
in offensive strikes against the evil aliens. Your strategic decisions
will determine the fate of the galaxy.

It's incredibly fun to play alone against the excellent computer
players, and even better with other humans on the internet.

 License : Demo, $50
 Author/Publisher : Delta Tao
 Modification Date : March 27, 2003
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.1 or higher and Mac OS 8.6 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 5.6 MB - Demo

 Home Page 

 Star Conquest 1.1.2 

Star Conquest is a turn-based strategic wargame. It may be played as a
single player, multi-player or network game. Up to ten players can play
in a game, accompanied by up to ten computer controlled players.

Your objective is to guide your species in its expansion to all corners
of the known Universe. You start with two or more populated Planets and
a small number of Star Ships. Using these Star Ships you have to explore
and colonise other Star Systems.

Soon you will encounter other species. Will you choose to conquer all,
or perhaps fight as part of an alliance. Each year you can decide what
strategy to follow, moving Star Ships or Fleets to attack or defend,
colonising Planets and exploring Star Systems. Once every player has
issued his or her commands, the year ends and the results are
calculated. The game continues until all players are eliminated and only
a single player or alliance remains.

Being a strategic wargame, Star Conquest is relatively complex and it
may take several weeks before you fully appreciate its complexity and
subtly of game play. If you are looking for a fast paced action game
this isn't it!

If you play Star Conquest on a single computer then each Player takes it
in turn to issue their orders. If you play a network game of Star
Conquest each Player takes their turn simultaneously.

 License : Demo, $15
 Author/Publisher : Dark Shadow Software
 Modification Date : June 21, 2003
 Requirements : Mac OS X and Mac OS 7.5 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 72.2 MB - Demo

 Download 
File Size: 850 Kb - 1.1.1 Demo Updater

 Download 
File Size: 832 Kb - 1.1.1 Demo Updater

 Download 
File Size: 834 Kb - 1.1.1 Updater

 Download 
File Size: 850 Kb - 1.1.1 Updater

 Download 
File Size: 837 Kb - 1.1.2 Updater

 Home Page 

 Starcraft 1.16.1 

As the military leader for your species, you must gather the resources
you need to train and expand your forces and lead them to victory. 30
unique missions will challenge you across three different campaigns as
you control the fate of the galaxy. Control any of three different
species, each with unique units, technologies, attributes, and
abilities.

 License : Demo, $20 for both Starcraft and Starcraft: Broodwar
 Author/Publisher : Blizzard Entertainment
 Modification Date : January 21, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 and higher and System 7.6 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 10.7 MB - 1.16.1 Starcraft Patch

 Download 
File Size: 25.1 MB - 1.16.1 Broodwar Patch

 Download 
File Size: 11.9 MB - 1.15.1 Starcraft Patch

 Download 
File Size: 26.5 MB - 1.15.1 Broodwar Patch

 Download 
File Size: 9.3 MB - 1.1 OS X Installer

 Download 
File Size: 39.6 MB - Demo

 Patch Download Page 

 Parent Directory for Patches 

 Battle.net Home Page 

 Blizzard Starcraft Home Page 

 Blizzard Starcraft: Broodwar Home Page 

 Star Wars: Empire at War 1.05rA 

Star Wars: Empire at War puts the power to command an entire war for the Star Wars galaxy
in the hands of players, giving them the freedom to determine how they play the game
within the completely scalable and accessible gameplay. Set a few years before the events
of Episode IV: A New Hope, LucasArts' Empire at War lets players wage war on ...

 License : Demo
 Author/Publisher : Aspyr
 Modification Date : May 24, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4.8 or higher - Intel Only

 Download 
File Size: 892.2 MB - Demo

 Download 
File Size: 5.6 MB - 1.05rA Updater

 Home Page 

 Star Wars Galactic Battlegrounds 1.1.1 

The destiny of a galaxy hangs in the balance and you're in command. Star
Wars Galactic Battlegrounds lets you lead the armies of Star Wars to
victory in intense, real-time strategy clashes. Enter the fray as Darth
Vader and the Galactic Empire, the Rebel Alliance with a legion of Jedi,
the greedy Trade Federation, the Royal Naboo and other civilizations in
campaigns that will determine the final outcome of the Galactic Civil
War. You are able to manage your resources and upgradeable technology
into your strategy, such as Wookiee ingenuity, advanced Gungan
biotechnology, and Jedi stamina. The action continues as you are able to
command X-wing fighters, Tie fighters, Imperial Walkers, and other famed
Star Wars vehicles. Star Wars Galactic Battlegrounds: Face your destiny!

 License : Update, $50
 Author/Publisher : Aspyr Media
 Modification Date : October 9, 2003
 Requirements : Mac OS X or higher and Mac OS 8.6 or higher - Not Compatible with Intel Macs

 Download 
File Size: 2 MB - 1.1.1 Updater

 Home Page 

 Theme Park World 2.1.4 

This is an unashamedly fun game aimed at pleasing absolutely everyone,
especially all of you saddo thrill-seekers who are into eyeball-bulging,
stomach-churning, cheek-tugging, teeth-rattling roller-coaster rides. And let's
face it who isn't? So enough from us - the site's set up in the usual way, so
have fun and do try to keep your dinner to yourself. Oh, oh, oh - almost forgot
(can anyone tell my stream-of-consciousness is showing?) - in North America,
Theme Park World is called SimTheme Park. So don't be confused if you read
reviews on American websites talking about SimTheme Park its the same game.

 License : Update, $30
 Author/Publisher : Feral Interactive
 Modification Date : December 20, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS 8.5 or higher and Mac OS X 10.1.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 2.8 MB - 2.1.4 Updater

 Home Page 

 Tribal Trouble 2.0.6 

A bunch of clueless Viking raiders have stranded on a group of tropical
islands - much to the annoyance of the local Natives. Help the tribesmen
settle their disputes in this fast paced realtime strategy game.

 License : Shareware, $30
 Author/Publisher : Oddlabs
 Modification Date : July 31, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 19.7 MB

 Home Page 

 Tropico 1.0.3 

You, the newly installed dictator of an obscure Caribbean island, must
create a life of prosperity and happiness for your people. Build farms
to feed them, tenements to house them, pubs to lift their spirits and
churches to save their souls. Follow a socialist path of factories,
mines, logging and fishing, or chase capitalist dollars by building
resorts to lure Yanqui tourists. Success will bring the praise of your
people along with a fat Swiss bank account. Failure? Well, there's
always martial law.

 License : Update, $30
 Author/Publisher : Feral Interactive
 Modification Date : December 4, 2001
 Requirements : Mac OS X and Mac OS 8.6 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 714 Kb - 1.0.3 Updater

 Home Page 

 Uplink 1.6.1 

You play an Uplink Agent who makes a living by performing jobs for major
corporations.Your tasks involve hacking into rival computer systems,
stealing research data, sabotaging other companies, laundering money,
erasing evidence, or framing innocent people.

You use the money you earn to upgrade your computer systems, and to buy
new software and tools. As your experience level increases you find more
dangerous and profitable missions become available. You can speculate on
a fully working stock market (and even influence its outcome). You can
modify peoples academic or criminal records. You can divert money from
bank transfers into your own accounts. You can even take part in the
construction of the most deadly computer virus ever designed.

 License : Shareware, $25
 Author/Publisher : Ambrosia/Introversion
 Modification Date : October 9, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 14.2 MB - Demo

 Home Page 

 Ur-Quan Masters 0.6.2 

The project started in August 2002, when Toys For Bob released the partially ported
sources of Star Control 2 3DO version to the fan community. Our goal is to port this
wonderful game to current personal computers and operating systems. It is and will remain
100% free of charge, and anyone can contribute to the project and thus help make it even
better.

This epic adventure spans hundreds of light years, and evokes a history reaching back over
250,000 years. As you travel out among the stars, your decisions and actions will directly
affect the destiny of 18 intelligent, star-faring species, including the inhabitants of
Earth.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : The Ur-Quan Masters Development Team
 Modification Date : January 17, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 20.9 MB

 Home Page 

 Virtual Villagers 1.0 

These poor villagers washed up on shore after surviving a horrific
volcanic eruption. You have to guide them in learning how to survive in
this real-time simulation game. They learn by doing, but you might have
to keep an eye on them to make sure they don't give up too easily. They
need to become farmers, builders, scientists, parents and more in order
to thrive on this new island. How will you lead your tribe?

 License : Shareware, $20
 Author/Publisher : Big Fish Games
 Modification Date : August 2, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 25 MB

 Home Page 

 Warcraft III 1.23a 

It has been nearly fifteen years since the war between the orcs and
humans ended. An uneasy peace settled over the land while, for years,
the drums of war were silent. Yet the kingdoms of men grew complacent in
their victory - and slowly, the defeated orcish clans regrouped under
the banner of a new visionary leader.

Now a darker shadow has fallen over the world, threatening to extinguish
all life - all hope. The drums of war play upon the winds once again -
rising urgently towards the inevitable hour when the skies will rain
fire - and the world will tremble before the coming of the Burning
Legion.

The Day of Judgment has come...

 License : Demo, Frozen Throne $20, Reign of Chaos $30
 Author/Publisher : Blizzard Entertainment
 Modification Date : March 23, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.1.3 or higher - The patches include previous fixes

 Download 
File Size: 25.2 MB - Full Reign of Chaos USA Patch 1.23a

 Download 
File Size: 62.4 MB - Full Frozen Throne USA Patch 1.23a

 Download 
File Size: 106 MB - Demo

 Download Page 

 Battle.net Home Page 

 Blizzard Home Page 

 Warrior Kings 1.0.3 

Warrior Kings is an epic real-time strategy game that uses true 3D to
propel you into a living, breathing, bleeding medieval fantasy world. A
world for you to master and rule - so what are you waiting for? Cry
"Havoc" and let slips the dogs of war! (or at least click on a couple of
the links in the menu.)

 License : Update, $40
 Author/Publisher : Feral Interactive
 Modification Date : July 2, 2004
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.1.3 or higher and Mac OS 9.1 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 3.6 MB - 1.0.3 Updater 

 Home Page 

 Wildlife Tycoon 1.0.5 

Create and control lions, elephants, zebras, and more in this unique and deceptively deep
strategy game. To succeed you'll have to discover the unique behaviors of each species and
build food and water sources to suit them. Plan your ecosystem well so that you can help
both predator and prey achieve balance in the wild.

Here's how the game works: You trade flowers to place a new animal in the world. As you
build populations of various species, you will be rewarded with jewels. Spend those jewels
to build improvements for your animals, such as trees, grasses, or watering holes.
Eventually, fulfill your overarching goal to move on to the next level.

 License : Shareware, $20
 Author/Publisher : GarageGames
 Modification Date : March 18, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2.8 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 19.2 MB

 Home Page 

 Worms 3D 1.1 

It took 700 million years for Worms on earth to evolve from flat
mud-dwelling strips of flesh into the sophisticated, fast-living,
fun-loving earth-filled tubes we see today. Fortunately it's only taken
Team 17 about 10 years to pull off a similar trick for their Worms. Not
bad going in the Darwinian Derby stakes. So Worms 3D on the Mac? Yes
indeedy - the third generation of Worms has gone all 3 dimensional on
us, but before any flat earthers start getting fidgety, let's make this
clear - its retained all the best bits... Team 17 have made a superb job of
making flatworms into roundworms (bad puns are part of the deal) - none
of this "it's in 3 dimensions and none of them are fun" malarkey.

 License : Update, $45
 Author/Publisher : Feral Interactive
 Modification Date : March 20, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 30.0 MB - 1.1 Updater

 Home Page 

 Denotes Mac OS X Intel Native 
 Denotes Mac OS X Intel & PPC Native 
 Denotes Mac OS X PPC Native 
 Denotes Mac OS 8/9 PPC Native 
 Denotes Mac OS 680x0 Native 
 Denotes Non-OS Specific Code 

 Back to the Main Page of Pure Mac