Pure Mac: System Enhancements - Software for Macintosh 

 System Enhancements 

 Web 

 Pure-Mac.com 

 Autotext 
 Keyboard 
 Menu 
 Services 
 Search 
 Virtual Desktops 
 Miscellany 

 CopyPaste 
 Spell Catcher 
 TextExpander 
 TypeIt4Me 
 Typinator 
 Clipboard 
 CopyPaste 
 iClip 
 Jumpcut 
 PTHPasteboard 
 shadowClipboard 

 DoubleCommand 
 Keyclick 
 KeyStrokes 
 KeyViewer 
 Popchar X 
 Synergy 
 Teleport 
 Ukelele 
 Macros 
 iKey 
 QuicKeys 

 Menu Master 
 MenuShade 
 Mouse 
 FinderPop 
 LazyMouse 
 MondoMouse 
 OmniDazzle 
 One Finger Snap 
 SteerMouse 
 Wraparound 
 xGestures 

 Print Selection Service 
 Service Manager 
 Service Scrubber 
 WordService 

 EasyFind 
 FoxTrot 
 Google Desktop 
 HoudahSpot 
 NotLight 
 SpotInside 
 Spotlaser 
 Speech 
 Cepstral Voices 
 GhostReader 
 iListen 
 Infovox iVox 
 VisioVoice 

 CodeTek VirtualDesktop 
 Desktop Manager 
 VirtueDesktops 
 Windows 
 ASM 
 DragonDrop 
 LiteSwitch 
 Sticky Windows 
 WindowShade 
 Witch 

 DarkAdapted 
 Default Folder 
 FastScripts 
 Growl 
 Hazel 
 ICeCoffEE 
 Smart Scroll 
 SwitchRes 
 TinkerTool 
 WinSwitch 
 Yahoo! Widget Engine 

 This page has software which will change the way your Mac works. For software that changes
your Mac's appearance, check the Face-Lift page. The Launchers , Disk & File and Diagnostic pages may also have what you're looking for. 

 Pure Mac 
 Games 

 Action 
 Arcade 
 Board 
 Card 
 Emulators 
 Flight Sims 
 Frivolous 
 Game Utilities 
 MMOG 
 Puzzle 
 RPG 
 Sports & Racing 
 Strategy 
 Word 

 Home 

 Astronomy 
 Calculators & Math 
 Charts & Graphs 
 Collections 
 Health 
 Hobbies & Crafts 
 Kid Stuff 
 Language 
 Parental Control 
 Recipes 
 Science 
 Teaching Aids 
 Typing 
 Weather 

 Internet 

 Collaboration 
 Distributed Computing 
 Download Managers 
 Email 
 FTP 
 Internet Utilities 
 iPhone 
 IRC & IM 
 Online Games 
 Peer-to-Peer 
 Radio 
 Remote Access 
 Usenet 
 Video Conferencing 
 VoIP 

 Multimedia 

 Audio 
 CAD 
 Comics 
 DTP 
 eBook 
 Font Utilities 
 Graphics 
 iTunes & MP3 
 Media Center 
 Music 
 Photoshop Plug-ins 
 Presentation 
 3D & Animation 
 Screen Capture 
 Video 

 System 

 Alternative OS 
 Classic OS Updates 
 Command Line 
 Contextual Menus 
 Cross-Platform 
 CSMs 
 Drivers 
 Face-Lift 
 Launchers 
 Olden 
 Screen Savers 
 Security 
 System Enhancements 
 Virus 
 Widgets 
 X11 

 Utilities 

 Backup 
 Business 
 Compression 
 Database 
 Diagnostics 
 Disk & File 
 Finance 
 Handhelds 
 Network 
 PIMs 
 Programming 
 Spreadsheets 
 Stocks 
 Telephony 
 Text Editors 
 Time 

 WWW 

 Auctions 
 Browsers 
 Browser Add-ons 
 The Cloud & SSBs 
 HTML Editors 
 Page Rippers 
 RSS & Podcasting 
 Site Tweaking 
 Social Networking 
 Web Cams 
 Web Graphics 
 Web Server 

 Extension Key 
 Pure Picks 
 Software Index 

 ASM 2.2.9 

ASM brings back the application switcher menu (and more) to Mac OS X. It's highly
customizable and offers some nice extra features, such as Classic Window Mode (orders all
windows of an application to front when it becomes active) or Single Application Mode
(automatically hides applications other than the front-most one).

 License : Shareware, $15
 Author/Publisher : Frank Vercruesse
 Modification Date : December 20, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 902 Kb

 Home Page 

 Cepstral Voices 5.1 

At Cepstral, Text-to-Speech is our only focus. We make realistic synthetic voices that can
say anything, anywhere, with personality and style. From the smallest device to large
installations and high-end interactive media, Cepstral voices can bring fresh content to
your ears, on demand.

 License : Demo, $30 per voice
 Author/Publisher : Cepstral LLC
 Modification Date : June 26, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: About 100 MB each

 Home Page 

 CodeTek VirtualDesktop 3.2 

Now you can multitask, work with more than one application at a time, in
Mac OS X by using CodeTek VirtualDesktop. CodeTek VirtualDesktop allows
you to run many applications side-by-side, yet keep your workspace
organized and your workflow efficient. The enhanced pager allows you to
view the your applications and instantly switch between desktops as you
work on different tasks. You can work with groups of windows, not just
single applications. CodeTek VirtualDesktop is highly customizable in
appearance and action; it works the way you want it to work.

 License : Shareware, $40, Lite Version $20
 Author/Publisher : CodeTek Studios
 Modification Date : July 5, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.7 MB - Pro Version

 Download 
File Size: 1.5 MB - Lite Version

 Home Page 

 CopyPaste Pro 2.0.6 

Multiple Clips
 - Never lose a clip again every copy is saved and available in a clip browser.
 Edit Clips
 - Now edit any clip instantly with the handy built in word processor.
 Archives
 - Create archives to keep any important clips you want to save and use later.
 History of Clips
 - All copies or cuts are instantly added to an always accessible history of clips.
 Multiple Views
 - View clips the way you like via menu or graphical browser.
 Clip Tools
 - Useful tools to alter text, insert time and extract data in clips.
 Quick CopyPaste
 - Makes copying and pasting faster and easier.
Easy to use. Invisible till you need it. Solid, fast and so much more...

 License : Shareware, $20
 Author/Publisher : Peter Hoerster and Julian Miller/Script Software
 Modification Date : April 5, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 4.0 MB

 Home Page 

 DarkAdapted 2.3.4 

DarkAdapted is a gamma control application program. It modifies your screen gamma settings
so that you may, for example, preserve your dark adaptation while using your computer.

 License : Freeware, Pro $10
 Author/Publisher : Stephen E. Hutson
 Modification Date : October 21, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 10.0 MB

 Home Page 

 Default Folder X 4.2 

Default Folder X 2.0 is now ready for Mac OS 10.4 "Tiger", improves
Save As dialogs, speeds opening folders in the Finder, and corrects
problems found in previous versions.
For years, Default Folder has helped speed Macintosh users through the
process of opening, saving, and managing files. Even in Mac OS X, the
familiar Open and Save dialogs are missing some very necessary 
features, and have some decidedly inconvenient quirks. Default Folder X
fixes a number of problems in OS X's file dialogs and adds convenient
features to quickly get you where you want to go.

 License : Shareware, $35
 Author/Publisher : Jon Gotow/St. Clair Software
 Modification Date : April 3, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 10.2 Kb - version 4.2

 Download 
File Size: 1.1 Mb - version 3.1.5

 Home Page 

 Desktop Manager 0.5.3 

Desktop Manager is my own pet project to implement a (hopefully) easy to
use virtual desktop manager for OS X. I've put it up here in the hope
that it will be useful to others. Simply run the app and a pager should
appear in the status bar and on the desktop.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Richard Wareham
 Modification Date : May 2, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 261 Kb - version 0.5.3 - May 2, 2005

 Home Page 

 DoubleCommand 1.6.5 

DoubleCommand is software for Mac OS X (a kernel extension) that lets
you remap keys, in other words change the way your keyboard works. Often
used to make a PC keyboard more comfortable with a Mac, swapping the Alt
(Option) and Windows (Command or Apple) keys, since they are in swapped
positions on Mac and PC keyboards. DoubleCommand is a quick and easy way
to fix this if you use a PC keyboard with your Mac. Called DoubleCommand
because originally it was used to give the old PowerBooks a second
Command key, where there was an enter key.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Michael Baltaks
 Modification Date : August 5, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher - Not Leopard Compatible

 Download 
File Size: 223 Kb

 Home Page 

 DragonDrop 1.3 

DragonDrop is intended to reintroduce some of the functionality lost
with the death of tabbed windows. We all remember tabbed windows, who
trod the classic paths. We could drag an open window to the bottom of
the screen, and a title-tab peeked up, readily displaying its contents
at a click or a drag, and collapsing to insignificance at the slightest
thought of dismissal.

Some used the tabs for quick-launching their favoritest of applications
and documents, others for drop boxes or to get things out of the way.
They're back, sort of.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : David Adamson
 Modification Date : July 12, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 517 Kb

 Home Page 

 EasyFind 4.5 

EasyFind is an alternative to or supplement of Spotlight and finds files,
folders or contents in any file without the need for indexing -- and
therefore immediately. This is especially useful if you are tired of
slow or impossible indexing, outdated or corrupted indices or if you are
just looking for missing features like case sensitive or insensitive
search, Boolean operators, wildcards or searching for phrases. In
addition, EasyFind uses multithreading and is therefore very responsive
even with multiple search processes running, provides contextual menus
and Mac OS X services and displays the location of each item in a
separate column for a better overview. Finally EasyFind uses little
memory, supports drag-and-drop and the clipboard and optionally finds
invisible items or items within packages.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : DEVONtechnologies
 Modification Date : July 9, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 867 Kb

 Home Page 

 FastScripts 2.3.1 

FastScripts is the super-charged scripting utility for Mac OS X.
Access your scripts by keyboard shortcut or menu bar.

 License : Shareware, $15
 Author/Publisher : Red Sweater Software
 Modification Date : September 26, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.4 MB

 Home Page 

 FinderPop 2.2 

Open the FinderPop preference pane. Click on the Show FinderPop Items Folder button in the
Items sub-panel. Add aliases to your favourite applications, folders, documents, and
whatnots to that folder. Now every time you control-click in the Finder or click in an
unused part of the menubar, you'll get a few more options... 
Control-free contextual menu popup in finder.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Turlough O'Connor
 Modification Date : February 13, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.0 MB - version 2.2

 Download 
File Size: 393 Kb - version 1.9.2 - December 3, 2000

 Home Page 

 FoxTrot 2.0.3 

FoxTrot is an application delivering the fastest,
most focused and precise way to find data in the files on your Mac.

Based on the revolutionary FoxTrot search engine - used in more than 40
countries by users of CTM's PowerMail - FoxTrot brings
high performance document retrieval and indexing to your most important
files.

 License : Demo, Personal $45, Pro $155
 Author/Publisher : CTM Development
 Modification Date : December 5, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 5.6 MB - FoxTrot Professional Search 2.0.3

 Download 
File Size: 6.6 MB - FoxTrot Personal Search 2.0.3

 Home Page 

 GhostReader 1.5.1 

GhostReader allows you to listen while your Mac does the talking

GhostReader is the new name (it used to be called TextParrot) for a
multilingual text to speech solution for Mac OS X that allows you to
listen to your documents with naturally sounding voices in a language of
choice. Just like a ghostwriter writes for someone else, GhostReader can
read for you! You can also use it to create your own personal podcasts
or your own audio books by exporting to iPod ready iTunes tracks. Or
just use it to speak selected text in a handy reader window with play,
fast forward and rewind functionality. In some applications, such as
Safari, GhostReader enables you to listen to text by just pointing your
cursor at the text. Now you can sit back and relax while GhostReader
reads the text under the cursor.

 License : Demo, $40 for single monolingual license
 Author/Publisher : ConvenienceWare
 Modification Date : June 4, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 292 MB

 Home Page 

 Google Desktop 1.6.0.1552 

Google Desktop is a desktop search application that gives you easy
access to information on your Mac and from the web. Desktop makes
searching your own email, files, music, photos, and more as easy as
searching the web with Google.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Google
 Modification Date : September 20, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 5.6 MB

 Home Page 

 Growl 1.1.6 

Growl is a global notification system for Mac OS X. Any application can
send a notification to Growl, which will display an attractive message
on your screen. Growl currently works with a growing number of
applications.
 What are notifications?
 Notifications are a way for your applications to provide you with new
information, without you having to switch from the application you're
already in.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : The Growl Project
 Modification Date : July 30, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher - Not Compatible with Snow Leopard

 Download 
File Size: 4.6 MB

 Home Page 

 Hazel 2.2.4 

Hazel watches whatever folders you tell it to, automatically organizing
your files according to the rules you create. It features a rule
interface similar to that of Apple Mail so you should feel right at
home. Have Hazel move files around based on name, date, type, what
site/email address it came from (Safari and Mail only) and much more.
Automatically put your music in your Music folder, movies in Movies.
Keep your downloads off the desktop and put them where they are supposed
to be.

 License : Shareware, $22
 Author/Publisher : Noodlesoft
 Modification Date : December 17, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.9 MB

 Home Page 

 HoudahSpot 2.4.4 

HoudahSpot leverages Apple's Spotlight engine to bring you a powerful, fast and easy to
use desktop search tool.

Your files at your fingertips. HoudahSpot is the frontend most Spotlight users don't know
they're missing

HoudahSpot allows you to zero in on files. Fast. A new HoudahSpot document presents itself
as a simple form with commonly used criteria. You may fill in the form at your leisure.
Search only starts when you are ready.

There is a myriad of criteria you may add to your query. Criteria can be combined to your
liking. And you are only getting started...

HoudahSpot really shines when it comes to displaying search results. It uses a plain,
concise, sortable and configurable list view. Add to that a generously sized file preview,
a detailed file inspector and a browser taking you to neighboring files.

 License : Shareware, $20
 Author/Publisher : Houdah Software
 Modification Date : February 16, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.5 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 2.7 MB

 Home Page 

 ICeCoffEE 1.4.4 

ICeCoffEE lets you Command-click to open URLs in Mac OS X applications
including TextEdit and Terminal. It adds the "Services" menu to some
text fields' contextual menus, and optionally to the menu bar as well.
ICeCoffEE is modeled after ICeTEe for classic Mac OS, which provided the
same functionality in many Macintosh applications by patching TextEdit.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Nicholas Riley
 Modification Date : August 14, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher - Not Compatible with Leopard

 Download 
File Size: 2.7 MB

 Home Page 

 iClip 4.0 

iClip is a new multiple clipboard/scrapbook software application for
Apple Macintosh computers with OS X.
 With iClip, you can drag & drop or copy & paste all kinds of information
into its "clipping bins". You can store:
 text
 pictures
 URLs
 sounds
 movies
 and much more

 License : Shareware, $29
 Author/Publisher : Inventive, Inc.
 Modification Date : January 30, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 13.6 MB

 Home Page 

 iKey 2.3.3 

iKey is an essential utility and incredibly powerful tool for OS X that
can eliminate repetitive actions. iKey allows creation of shortcuts that
perform an action or sequence of actions each of which can be launched
by key combinations or menu or event. This easy to use macro/automation
utility can save time, typing and hundreds of clicks everyday. Avoid
carpal tunnel, get more accomplished and have fun with iKey. An
excellent manual written by Adam Engst is included.

 License : Shareware, $30
 Author/Publisher : Script Software
 Modification Date : December 31, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 6.0 MB

 Home Page 

 iListen 1.8 

MacSpeech is the only company currently developing dictation software
for the Macintosh. iListen users enjoy the ability to dictate into
virtually any application, hands-free correction, and the largest set of
voice commands available on any platform.

 License : Update, $179
 Author/Publisher : MacSpeech, Inc.
 Modification Date : November 30, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 8.9 MB - iListen 1.7.x to 1.8 updater

 Home Page 

 Infovox iVox 1.2 

Infovox iVox provides Mac OS X users with the best voices ever on the Mac. You won't
believe your ears hearing these naturally-sounding voices, available in many different
languages. What is more, they can be used in any Mac OS X application that uses speech.
Including applications such as TextEdit, Preview, Acrobat Reader, Proloquo, KeyStrokes,
SwitchXS, VisioVoice and AppleWorks, as well as many educational titles.

 License : Demo, $149 and up
 Author/Publisher : Acapela Group/AssistiveWare
 Modification Date : April 29, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 432 MB for US English, Size differs depending on language

 Sample Voices 

 Home Page 

 Jumpcut 0.63 

Jumpcut is a clipboard enhancement tool for Mac OS X. It runs as a
"faceless" application that puts a menu in the right-hand corner of the
menu bar.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Steve Cook
 Modification Date : January 25, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 518 Kb

 Home Page 

 Keyclick 1.2.3 

Keyclick is a Mac OS X preference pane that provides subtle but important feedback for
each keystroke the system recognizes. Years ago keyboards were made with premium key
switches that provided a resounding click when a key snapped over. Today most keyboards
are made using rubber domes which can provide a similar force displacement or tactile
feel, but not the sound. Human factors work on video terminals in the 1980s showed that
the perception of keyboard crispness is correlated with audio feedback. Keyclick provides
that feedback while improving on the original.

 License : Shareware, $2.50
 Author/Publisher : Sustainable Softworks
 Modification Date : April 24, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 365 Kb

 Home Page 

 KeyStrokes 4.0 

KeyStrokes is a fully-functional advanced virtual on-screen keyboard
that allows you to type with a mouse, trackball, head pointer or other
mouse emulator to type characters into any standard Macintosh
application.

KeyStrokes provides advanced multilingual word prediction. Thanks to its
revolutionary PolyPredix word prediction engine it can do word
completion, next word prediction and even multi-word prediction in any
Roman language as well as many other languages. The PolyPredix
prediction engine offers many unique, time and effort saving features
allowing significantly easier and faster typing. PolyPredix can reduce
typing efforts by 50 to 70%.

 License : Demo, $299
 Author/Publisher : David Niemeijer/AssistiveWare
 Modification Date : January 18, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 33.2 MB

 Home Page 

 KeyViewer 1.5 

KeyViewer is an AppleScript which provides easy access to Mac OS X's built-in Keyboard Viewer.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : MacParc
 Modification Date : August 3, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 91 Kb

 Home Page 

 LazyMouse 2.1.2 

LazyMouse is a Preference Pane that moves your cursor to the default
button whenever a dialog box appears on your screen. In other words, it
will save you time moving the mouse to dismiss dialogs.

 License : Shareware, $10
 Author/Publisher : Old Jewel Software
 Modification Date : April 10, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.3 MB

 Home Page 

 LiteSwitch X 2.6 

Short Answer: LiteSwitch X is simply the best keyboard application
switcher for Mac OS X. Long Answer: LiteSwitch X was the original
application switcher for the Mac OS - and is still the best. Originally
a free utility under Mac OS 8 and 9, LiteSwitch X has matured into a
full-features shareware utility which can be stolen for just $14.95.
LiteSwitch has been called by some a Mac OS implementation of the
Alt-Tab feature found in another unmentionable operating system, but
LiteSwitch X offers a whole host of other features like drag and drop
support, application exclusion, application termination and window
layering control.

 License : Shareware, $15
 Author/Publisher : Sam Caughron/Proteron
 Modification Date : July 22, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 488 Kb

 Home Page 

 Menu Master 1.4.2 

Menu Master is a haxie that allows you to change or remove menu shortcut
keys in any application with ease. It takes about 15 seconds to learn
how to use Menu Master, and saves you lots of time later because you can
use the shortcuts you defined and do not bother remembering which ones
the developer of the software invented for you. Additionally, you can
set shortcuts to any menu item that had no shortcuts, or remove
shortcuts from menu items. Menu Master gives you a complete control over
your menus.

 License : Shareware, $10
 Author/Publisher : Unsanity
 Modification Date : February 1, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher - Not Compatible with Leopard

 Download 
File Size: 2.9 MB

 Home Page 

 MenuShade 1.1 

The menubar is almost always on your screen, burning into your LCD and
actually causing a permanent white streak across the top (like the old
monitors)... but not only that, it also burns your eyes... so darken it
a little with MenuShade.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Nullriver Software
 Modification Date : May 10, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 69 Kb

 Home Page 

 MondoMouse 1.4.2 

Move any window without clicking it, and without bringing it to the front.

Resize any window without clicking it, and without bringing it to the front.

Focus Follows Mouse: Automatically switch to whatever application the mouse hovers over.

But wait, there's more! Ever have trouble finding a window? MondoMouse identifies the
window under the mouse for you via a floating text box (as seen in the screenshots above).
Find just the right window from the dozens that may be open, without all that tedious
mucking about with Expose!

 License : Shareware, $15
 Author/Publisher : Atomic Bird
 Modification Date : February 4, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.1 MB

 Home Page 

 NotLight 1.4 

A simple Spotlight front-end substitute. I wrote this because I got sick
and tired of Tiger's lousy Spotlight interface. The magnifying-glass
menu is a fake menu; it behaves oddly, and doesn't show all the matches.
The Spotlight window looks like something from the Windows world: it
works like a web browser, you can't easily navigate it with the
keyboard, you have to keep pressing the "i" buttons just to learn where
a file is, and so on. The Finder window requires that you jump through
all sorts of hoops just to find a file by name. Worst of all, none of
these front ends give you access to the real power of Spotlight: they
automatically do wildcard searches, they don't let you do exact
searches, they don't let you specify case-sensitivity or word-based
searches, and they don't let you construct complex boolean searches with
AND, OR, and NOT (or if they do, it isn't clear how).

So I wrote this substitute, in order to access the real Spotlight. You
can do any kind of Spotlight search; seven search keys are built in, and
you can add more, and you can even view and edit a search as text if you
like. You can use wildcards or not, specify word-based,
case-insensitive, and diacritic-insensitive searches, and construct
complex searches with AND, OR, and NOT. A Date Assistant translates
dates into Spotlights query langugae for you. Results are a simple list
of filename and paths.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Matt Neuberg
 Modification Date : August 2, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 989 Kb

 Home Page 

 OmniDazzle 1.0.1 

Introducing OmniDazzle, a set of fun and useful enhancements that help you highlight
certain areas of your screen, create visual effects, and track the location of your mouse
pointer.

If you've ever used your computer screen to do a presentation, capture screen shots, or as
a point of reference while someone looks over your shoulder...you, my friend, could have
used OmniDazzle. OmniDazzle is handy for those times when you need to call attention to
something on your screen ("...as you can all see, line 37 in this spreadsheet lists my
proposed new salary: eleventy hojillion dollars. Any questions?"), and even helps you find
your lost cursor (hey, it happens - especially when you're navigating across the
four-million-pixels-and-counting landscape of a 30" Cinema Display).

OmniDazzle is designed to be both playful and practical; you can use a plug-in to
professionally emphasize a section of your screen, or you can turn your mouse movement
into an area of focus that trails pixie dust (or waves, or a bullseye, or...) across your
desktop. You can configure each plug-in to suit your own particular preferences: change
colors, make objects bigger or smaller, or change the way you activate the OmniDazzle
plug-in of your choice.

 License : Shareware, $15
 Author/Publisher : The Omni Group
 Modification Date : November 1, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4.6 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 5.4 MB

 Home Page 

 One Finger Snap 1.4.1 

One Finger Snap is a Preference Pane that brings up the contextual menu
whenever you click and hold down the mouse button. This means that you
can do everything with a single-button mouse that you can do with a
2-button mouse. Don't throw away that 1-button mouse. Don't carry around
a clunky mouse with your powerbook. Don't think that you've lost a
second mouse button when you switch from that other OS. Just click and
hold wherever you would normally right-click.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Old Jewel Software
 Modification Date : August 31, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 296 Kb

 Home Page 

 Popchar X 4.1.1 

Tired of searching and remembering keyboard combinations for umlauts and
other special characters? Want to get the most out of your fonts? Then
PopChar is the right tool for you.

PopChar makes "typing" of unusual characters easy without having to
remember keyboard combos.

Whenever you need a special character, PopChar is there to help. Click
the little "P" box to display a table of characters. Select the desired
character and it instantly appears in your document.

PopChar X supports Unicode fonts with thousands of characters available
in many fonts. If a font contains Unicode characters, you can use the
"U" button to see all of them, neatly arranged in the standard Unicode
categories.

Web designers will especially enjoy the ability to insert HTML symbols.

 License : Shareware, $46
 Author/Publisher : Ergonis
 Modification Date : November 19, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.9 MB

 Home Page 

 Print Selection Service 2.0 

The Print Selection Service adds a Print Selection command to the Services menu. You need
to log out after installation for applications to see the new Service.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Manfred Schubert
 Modification Date : March 24, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher - You may need to manually make the folder Library/Services due to permissions

 Download 
File Size: 60 Kb

 Home Page 

 PTHPasteboard 4.4 

Welcome to PTHPasteboard 4, the best and most mature multiple pasteboard
program for OS X. How often have you copied something only to find that
you need it a few minutes later but you've already copied another item?
PTHPasteboard watches you while you work and keeps a copy of any items
that you have copied to your pasteboard.

Try out PTHPasteboard and you'll wonder how you lived without. Its a
great tool that stays out of your way until you need it.

PTHPasteboard PRO adds the ability to Sync Pasteboards across multiple machines and the
ability to paste through Filters for easy and powerful text manipulations.

 License : Freeware, Pro $20
 Author/Publisher : PTH Consulting
 Modification Date : February 14, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher - Not Compatible with Snow Leopard

 Download 
File Size: 2.7 MB

 Home Page 

 QuicKeys 3.2.3 

QuicKeys X is the first automation utility specifically designed for Mac
OS X. It takes the daily tasks that would normally require you
five...six...twenty or more steps and turns them into simple one step
shortcuts. Automate anything from launching programs, mounting servers,
selecting menus, and running UNIX commands to typing text or shutting
down your Classic environment. Whatever you do, however many steps,
QuicKeys saves you time and increases your productivity.

 License : Demo, $100
 Author/Publisher : Startly Technologies, LLC 
 Modification Date : September 16, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 12.5 MB

 Home Page 

 shadowClipboard 3.0.5 

shadowClipboard is the clipboard manager for Mac OS X that handles multiple clipboards in
a convenient, unobtrusive way. shadowClipboard gives you access to files, pages of texts,
images, pdf documents and all other data you have copied a few minutes or a week ago.

 License : Shareware, $15
 Author/Publisher : stupidFish Programming
 Modification Date : January 15, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.6 MB

 Home Page 

 Service Manager 0.8 

The Service Manager allows you to enable and disable applications'
services. It also lets you change key commands and menu item
organization.
 * Applications you do not have write to access to (e.g. the Finder) cannot
be changed.
 * This preference pane makes a small change to the info.plist of
applications you modify. Since the pane has not been widely tested, you
may want to limit your changes to apps you have backed up.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Nicholas Jitkoff
 Modification Date : May 12, 2003
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.1 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 42 Kb

 Home Page 

 Service Scrubber 1.1.5 

Wouldn't the services menu be much more useful if it weren't overcrowded
by services you never even thought of using? With Service Scrubber, you
can:
 * restructure the services menu
 * change service keyboard shortcuts
 * disable services

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Peter Maurer
 Modification Date : July 7, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.0 MB

 Home Page 

 Smart Scroll 2.8.8 

Smart Scroll X brings new scrolling options and enhancements to Mac OS X:
 * Super Wheel - smoother, faster, more comfortable scroll wheel action. Try it!
 * Grab Scroll - a "hand" tool to easily move any window's contents.
 * Scroll Keys - fast and dependable scrolling, without reaching for the mouse.
 * FileMaker Pro and AppleWorks live scrolling, scroll wheel support, and more.

 License : Shareware, $19
 Author/Publisher : Marc Moini
 Modification Date : December 15, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 2.2 MB

 Home Page 

 Spell Catcher X 10.2.3 

Spell Catcher is the ultimate spell checking and writing tool. Use it as
a spell checker in e-mails, letters or documents, instant messages, and
more! Perform a spelling check whenever and wherever you want! Use it to
watch for mistakes as you type, auto-correct words you misspell
frequently, or expand typing shorthands into much longer phrases that
you already type too often. With its comprehensive dictionaries and
thesaurus, Spell Catcher works in just about any Mac or Windows
application you can type into, so you'll no longer need different
dictionaries for all your applications.

 License : Demo, $40
 Author/Publisher : Rainmaker Research Inc.
 Modification Date : November 21, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 9.6 MB

 Download 
File Size: 3.3 MB

 Home Page 

 Spotinside 0.9.3 

Another three pane style document manager?
 Yes... No it's not.
 - Supports many file types including Text, PDF, Word, Pages (i.e. All file compatible with Spotlight)
 - You can see within a file without opening it
 - Automatically highlights search keywords
 - You can choose a target folder to search
 - You can choose a smart folder as a search target
 - Not cabable of editing. Use external applications to edit

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Oneriver Software
 Modification Date : April 18, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 2.7 MB

 Home Page 

 Spotlaser 1.3.1 

Every file on your computer has name, location, date and contact information, but it's not
up to you to remember all this, that's what computers are for! With hard drives getting
bigger every year, more and more files are saved every day. But where did you save them?
Can you get to them easily? If you're not careful in saving your files where you know
you'll find them, you could have a hard time retrieving them. You may know part or all of
a file's name, information that a file contains, or other related information about a
file. But how do you use this information to your advantage? The in-built search functions
of Finder in Mac OS X give you the capability to find files, but without the flexibility
and ease you may want or need. That's where Spotlaser comes in. Spotlaser enables you to
get results that are more focused and relevant to your requirements. Spotlaser is perfect
for live searching or to create Smart Folders for your most common searches.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Frovil Heavy Industries
 Modification Date : June 28, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.2 MB - remove the .bz2 extension to open the disk image

 Home Page 

 SteerMouse 3.9 

SteerMouse supports USB and Bluetooth mice. It will even work with mice designed for
Windows PCs. You can customize your mouse freely even if there is no Macintosh's driver.

SteerMouse has convenient and unique functions that are not included in Apple's mouse
driver. With SteerMouse you can get the best use out of Mighty Mouse. Of course SteerMouse
also supports the new wireless Mighty Mouse.

 License : Shareware, $20
 Author/Publisher : Plentycom Systems
 Modification Date : March 4, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 820 Kb

 Home Page 

 Sticky Windows 2.4 

Sticky Windows is an application for Mac OS X Tiger which extends the
tab browsing experience to the Desktop. Sticky Windows shrinks your
windows into tabs when you drag a window towards the edge of your
screen. Providing you with a completely clutter-free workspace. By
clicking on the tab the user can show and hide the window.

The tab can be created by dragging a window on any side of the screen
(more than one screen configuration is supported too). When the mouse
reaches the margin of the screen a tab will appear.

To remove a tab, simply drag it away from the screen edge. If the window
is not currently visible when the tab is dismissed, the original window
is re-displayed on the screen.

 License : Shareware, $16
 Author/Publisher : Donelleschi
 Modification Date : November 20, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 946 Kb

 Home Page 

 SwitchRes 3.8.6 

SwitchRes X reproduces all functions on SwitchRes 2 on MacOS X, and does
even more! Basically, it helps you manage the resolution of all your
monitors. You can access to the resolutions of all your displays in a
simple, customizable menu. You can most of the time enable more
resolutions than what the system allows you to use, from the SwitchRes
preferences panel. SwitchRes X incorporates features relative to the
Monitor Resolution, Monitor BitDepth, and Video Mirroring into one
single utility. You can use its menu in the Menu Bar or click on the
Finder Desktop with its Contextual Menu Plugin to gain access to all
these settings from within every application.

 License : Shareware, $15
 Author/Publisher : Stephane Madrau
 Modification Date : March 4, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 4.7 MB

 Home Page 

 Synergy 1.3.1 

Synergy lets you easily share a single mouse and keyboard between multiple computers with
different operating systems without special hardware. It's intended for users with
multiple computers on their desk since each system uses its own display.

 SynergyKM: The Missing GUI.
 Synergy is a great tool, but it is still missing a GUI that would make it a real Mac
application. So we started this project to fill that void. Our goal is to merge with the
project on Sourceforge at some point.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Synergy Project
 Modification Date : April 2, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 921 Kb - Synergy 1.3.1

 Download 
File Size: 1.5 MB - SynergyKM 1.0b6 - Prefpane - March 27, 2006

 Download Page - Get Windows and Linux binaries here

 SynergyKM Home Page 

 Home Page 

 Teleport 1.0.1 

Teleport is a simple utility to let you use one single mouse and keyboard to control
several of your Macs.

Simply reach the edge of your screen, and your mouse teleports to your other Mac! The
pasteboard can be synchronized, and you can even drag & drop files between your Macs.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Abyssoft
 Modification Date : April 13, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 718 Kb

 Home Page 

 TextExpander 2.7 

TextExpander is a utility that helps you type more efficiently and more
accurately. Textpander listens to what you type and inserts predefined
text snippets on the fly whenever you enter their corresponding
abbreviations. Here are a few examples for what you can do with
TextExpander:

Insert standard greetings, text fragments, and signatures - including formatted text and pictures.

Insert the current date and time in any format you prefer.

Use editor-independent code templates and have Textpander position the
cursor just where it needs to be.

Type special characters without having to launch any special characters palette.

Have TextExpander correct typos automatically.

Import text snippets from other typing utilities.

 License : Shareware, $30
 Author/Publisher : SmileOnMyMac
 Modification Date : August 24, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 3.8 MB

 Home Page 

 TinkerTool 3.96 

TinkerTool is an application that gives you access to additional
preference settings Apple has built into Mac OS X. This allows to
activate hidden features in the operating system and in some of the
applications delivered with the system.

The tool makes sure that preference changes can only affect the current
user. You don't need administrative privileges to use the tool. With
this design, it is no problem to use TinkerTool in professional networks
where users have restricted permissions. The program will never change
any component of the operating system, so the integrity of your system
is not put at risk, and there will be no negative effect on system
updates.

All preference settings changed by TinkerTool can be reset to Apple's
defaults, or to the state that existed before using the tool. No
dangerous background processes are used for TinkerTool's operation.

Because TinkerTool only gives you access to features already built into
Mac OS X, its feature set varies greatly between different operating
system versions.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Marcel Bresink
 Modification Date : August 28, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 2.0 MB

 Home Page 

 TypeIt4Me 4.1.2 

Anytime you enter text in your Mac by typing it at the keyboard, TypeIt4Me can help you do it
faster and more accurately.
First you define a number of abbreviations and the full text entries that they represent, then you
watch the Mac expand them on the fly even as you continue typing!

 License : Shareware, $27
 Author/Publisher : Riccardo Ettore
 Modification Date : August 27, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 7.5 MB - version 4.1.2

 Download 
File Size: 511 Kb - version 4.8.2

 Home Page 

 Typinator 3.5.1 

Typinator is an easy-to-use automatic text software that helps you to quickly insert
phrases or pictures into any type of document.

Setup is easy: You just define an abbreviation along with its replacement text or picture.

Usage is even easier: Whenever you type one of your abbreviations in any application,
Typinator inserts the corresponding replacement.

 License : Shareware, $29
 Author/Publisher : Ergonis
 Modification Date : July 8, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 2.7 MB

 Home Page 

 Ukelele 1.8.1 

Ukelele is a Unicode Keyboard Layout Editor for Mac OS X versions 10.2 and later. Ukelele
aims to simplify keyboard layout editing by providing a graphical interface to .keylayout
files, where the desired characters can simply be dragged onto keys as needed. (The
Character Palette, available in the Input menu if it has been enabled in System
Preferences, is a great place to find the characters.)

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : John Brownie
 Modification Date : January 5, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 5.7 MB

 Home Page 

 VirtueDesktops 0.54b5 

VirtueDesktops is a virtual desktop manager for Mac OS. It offers features, eye
candy and configurable options that no other desktop manager on the mac
has added yet, and is under active development. It is based upon
DesktopManager, which is a lighter, less feature-packed virtual desktop
application.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Tony Arnold
 Modification Date : December 17, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4

 Download 
File Size: 2.8 MB

 Home Page 

 VisioVoice 1.1 

VisioVoice is an application that enhances access to Mac OS X for blind
and vision impaired users. It adds multilingual support to Apple's
excellent VoiceOver screen reader technology for a number of languages,
as well as providing several other speech and vision related features to
enhance access to Mac OS X. VisioVoice comes bundled with Infovox iVox,
which provides the best voices ever on the Mac in a wide range of
languages.

 License : Demo, $185
 Author/Publisher : AssistiveWare
 Modification Date : October 10, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 7.8 MB

 Home Page 

 WindowShade X 4.2 

WindowShade X provides an exciting and useful way of organizing your
work on Mac OS X. With this handy tool, you can assign the following
actions to the minimize button and a double-click on the window title:
 Minimize the window to the Dock, like always;
 "Windowshade" the window into a tiny strip to quickly peek below or get it out of the way;
 Minimize-In-Place the window so it becomes really small so you can move
 it out of the way yet still see what is going on;
 Make the window transparent so you can continue working in it while seeing things under it;
 Hide the application quickly;
 Do nothing and ignore the action (sometimes it is quite useful as well).
 These actions can be set on per-application basis so you can configure your workspace to be convenient for you.

 License : Shareware, $10
 Author/Publisher : Unsanity
 Modification Date : September 22, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4.11 or higher (including Leopard)

 Download 
File Size: 3.4 MB

 Home Page 

 WinSwitch 3.2.1 

Apple did a superb job with its new Fast User Switching feature in
Panther (Mac OS X 10.3), but for users with long names, the associated
menu item is a terrible waste of precious Menu Bar real estate.
WinSwitch fixes that and brings a number of other powerful features that
are not available on other Panther or Tiger (Mac OS X 10.4).

Wouldn't it be nice if you could access the feature through a compact,
icon-sized Menu Bar icon? WinSwitch does exactly that, closely matching
the performance and style of the Apple-provided menu, but without all
the bulk. In fact, it even corrects some problems with Apple's menu by
eliminating certain "daemon" users which shouldn't show up in the list,
and by improving the alignment of user icons in the menu. WinSwitch
gives you rapid access to the Accounts preference pane, and is
completely customizable, allowing you to choose from six different menu
bar styles.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Wincent Colaiuta
 Modification Date : April 3, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.5 MB

 Home Page 

 Witch 2.0.2 

Have you ever wanted to switch to a certain window - not just the application it belongs
to? While you can use Expose to switch windows, doing so can be very clumsy if you're the
keyboard-only type of user. And don't all of these windows look just the same when they
are scaled down? Witch lets you access all of your windows by pressing a shortcut and
choosing from a clearly arranged list of window titles.

 License : Shareware, $16
 Author/Publisher : Peter Maurer
 Modification Date : November 3, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 913 Kb

 Home Page 

 WordService 2.7 

This service provides functions to convert, format or speak the
currently selected text, to insert data or to show statistics of the
selection within all Cocoa applications (for example TextEdit, Mail,
Stickies, Notes, Fire, OmniWeb, ProjectBuilder or TeXShop) and Carbon
applications supporting services.

Features: Reformat, Remove line endings/multiple spaces/quotes, Trim
line beginnings/line endings/lines, Sort lines ascending/descending,
Shift left/light, Initial caps of words/sentences, All caps & lowercase,
Mac/Windows/Unix line endings, Rotate 13, Straight/Smart Quotes,
Encode/Decode tabs, Insert date/date & time/time/contents of path, Speak
native/german text, Statistics.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Devon Technologies
 Modification Date : September 5, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 221 Kb

 Home Page 

 Wraparound 1.3.1 

Wraparound is an application primarily intended for users with large and/or multiple
screens, which allows the mouse cursor to "wrap" around the screens. Rather than spending
time and energy moving the cursor across the screen, from one side to the other, simply
drag it off one edge and it immediately appears on the other side.

Wraparound can handle even the most abnormal of screen layout configurations, and even
allow windows and other objects to be dragged though screen edges. And if you're worried
about not being able to hit your menu bar or dock without the edge to stop the cursor, you
can always turn off horizontal or vertical screen wrapping to suit your preferences. It
also preserves screensavers and Expose functionality with variable sized non-wrapping
areas at the corners.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Digital Cow Software
 Modification Date : January 30, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 204 Kb

 Home Page 

 xGestures 1.73 

xGestures is a shareware program for Mac OS X 10.3 and later that allows you to use mouse
gestures in all aspects of your Macintosh computer. You can define gestures for individual
programs, or for the whole computer, and map them to useful functions like closing or
minimizing windows, switching or launching applications, picking menu items or performing
keystrokes, triggering Expose, and much more!

 License : Shareware, $5
 Author/Publisher : Brian Kendall
 Modification Date : November 26, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.5 MB

 Home Page 

 Yahoo! Widget Engine 4.5.2 

Keep the stuff that you love right at your fingertips.
Bring life to your desktop with fun, stylish,
and useful Yahoo! Widgets.

Konfabulator is a JavaScript runtime engine for Windows and Mac OS X
that lets you run little files called Widgets that can do pretty much
whatever you want them to. Widgets can be alarm clocks, calculators, can
tell you your WiFi signal strength, will fetch the latest stock quotes
for your preferred symbols, and even give your current local weather.

What sets Konfabulator apart from other scripting applications is that
it takes full advantage of today's advanced graphics. This allows
Widgets to blend fluidly into your desktop without the constraints of
traditional window borders. Toss in some sliding and fading, and these
little guys are right at home in Windows XP and Mac OS X.

The format for these Widgets is completely open and easy to learn so
creating your own Widgets is an extremely easy task.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Arlo Rose, Perry Clarke, Ed Voas/Yahoo Inc.
 Modification Date : May 1, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 22.9 MB

 The Widget Gallery 

 Home Page 

 Denotes Mac OS X Intel Native 
 Denotes Mac OS X Intel & PPC Native 
 Denotes Mac OS X PPC Native 
 Denotes Mac OS 8/9 PPC Native 
 Denotes Mac OS 680x0 Native 
 Denotes Non-OS Specific Code 

 Back to the Main Page of Pure Mac