Pure Mac: Stock Tickers and Analyzers - Software for Macintosh 

 Stock Tickers and Analyzers 

 Web 

 Pure-Mac.com 

 BlueChip 
 Investor/RT 
 iStock 
 MarketAnalyst 
 Personal Analyst 

 Personal Trader 
 Portfolio Analysis Review 
 PowerTicker 
 Pro Analyst 
 ProTA 

 QuoteFiler 
 Stock Analysis & Portfolio Review 
 Stalker 
 Stock Investment Guide 
 Stock Portfolio 

 Stock WatchTower 
 StockXloader 
 Stox 
 Ticker 
 Trade Manager 
 Trade Strategist 

 Pure Mac 
 Education 
 Accessibility 
 Astronomy 
 Calculators & Math 
 Collections 
 Health 
 Hobbies & Crafts 
 Kid Stuff 
 Language 
 Parental Control 
 Recipes 
 Science 
 Teaching Aids 
 Typing 

 Games 
 Action 
 Arcade 
 Board 
 Card 
 Emulators 
 Flight Sims 
 Frivolous 
 Game Utilities 
 MMOG 
 Puzzle 
 RPG 
 Sports & Racing 
 Strategy 
 Word 

 Internet 
 Collaboration 
 Distributed Computing 
 Download Managers 
 Email 
 FTP 
 Internet Utilities 
 iPhone 
 IRC & IM 
 Online Games 
 Peer-to-Peer 
 Remote Access 
 Usenet 
 Video Conferencing 
 VoIP 

 Multimedia 
 Audio 
 CAD 
 Charts 
 DTP 
 Ebook 
 Font Utilities 
 Graphics 
 iTunes & MP3 
 Media Center 
 Music 
 Photoshop Plug-ins 
 Presentation 
 3D & Animation 
 Screen Capture 
 Video 

 System 
 Alternative OS 
 Classic Updates 
 Command Line 
 Contextual Menus 
 CSMs 
 Drivers 
 Face-Lift 
 Launchers 
 Olden 
 Screen Savers 
 Security 
 System Enhancements 
 Virus 
 Widgets 
 X11 

 Utilities 
 Backup 
 Compression 
 Cross-Platform 
 Database 
 Diagnostics 
 Disk & File 
 Finance 
 Handhelds 
 Network 
 PIMs 
 Programming 
 Spreadsheets 
 Telephony 
 Text Editors 
 Time 

 WWW 
 Auctions 
 Browsers 
 Browser Enhancements 
 Page Rippers 
 RSS & Podcasting 
 Site Management 
 Stock Tickers 
 Weather 
 Web Cams 
 Web Editors 
 Web Graphics 
 Web Search 
 Web Server 
 Web Services 
 Web 2.0 

 Extension Key 
 Pure Picks 
 Software Index 

 BlueChip 1.53 

BlueChip is a unique program designed to finally give OS X stock traders
a simple and elegant solution to monitoring personal portfolios.
Offering everything from simple stock quotes to extensive alert and
portfolio tracking.

 License : Shareware, $12
 Author/Publisher : Eyenovation Multimedia
 Modification Date : April 12, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.9 MB

 Home Page 

 Investor/RT 8.9 

Investor/RT provides the online investor a software solution that turns a computer into a trading
workstation. Designed for active investors and traders, Investor/RT monitors, charts,
and analyzes real-time market data. The program's analytical tools handle any
Periodicity: Daily, Weekly, Monthly, Tick-by-Tick, Tick Bars, or Minute
Bars of any duration. Investor/RT provides a wide array of Chart Types: 
Candlestick, Bar, Line, Point and Figure, Market Profile, Volume Profile,
Raw Tick, Day Bar, and Three Line Break . . . all dynamic and flexible, allowing
you to paint your picture of the market and monitor it real time. 
 All Markets, including Stocks, Mutual Funds, Futures, Options, Indices,
Currencies, and Bonds, can be monitored trade-by-trade. Whether you actively track
only a few securities or wish to follow thousands of securities in search of new trading
opportunities, Investor/RT is the tool for you. 

 License : Demo, $19 to $99 a month
 Author/Publisher : Linn Software
 Modification Date : October 8, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 9.2 MB - Demo/Updater 8.8.6

 Home Page 

 iStock 1.3a13 

iStock will automatically retrieve the latest quotes from the internet
and display this information in a convenient format. It will also
monitor your portfolios of shares including calculation of gain or loss
in your local currency. All done in your local currency.

 License : Shareware, $12
 Author/Publisher : Infinite Loop
 Modification Date : December 5, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.1.5 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 760 Kb

 Home Page 

 MarketAnalyst X 4.5.4 

MarketAnalyst X is a Mac OS X application that enables you to keep track
of stocks, options, indexes, and mutual funds in portfolios, graph
single and multiple graphs all in real time. Max supports customizable
alerts and also includes a number of built in analasys tools including
an Options Calculator, Max Pain technical indicator, Level 2 quotes, and
streaming quotes.

 License : Demo, $200
 Author/Publisher : Big Green Software
 Modification Date : April 28, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 4.8 MB

 Home Page 

 Personal Analyst 5.1 

Personal Analyst puts a multitude of classic charting and analysis tools
at your fingertips. Professional traders love the Computer Generated
Trendlines that automatically track and chart significant highs and
lows. This same intelligence automatically draws Fibonacci, Gann,
Trident Linear Regression and Speed Lines. Personal preferences for
study smoothing and display characteristics are stored independently for
each security, allowing this simple to operate, sophisticated research
resource to be customized to your unique specifications.

 License : Demo, $159
 Author/Publisher : Trendsetter Software
 Modification Date : April 22, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 6.0 MB

 Home Page 

 Personal Trader 2.1 

Personal Trader is a simple and powerful tool for tracking and analyzing your investments.
In only one click, you update all the data and follow your investments.
 Main functionalities:
 support for multiple currencies and market portfolios
 support for tracking-lists with unlimited lines
 visualisation in one view of all international indices
 graphics for daily, weekly and monthly views
 Personal Trader 2 supports different international markets :
 Nasdaq
 Nyse
 Paris (France)
 Milano (Italy)
 Madrid (Spain)
 London (UK)
 Frankfurt (Germany)
 Australia and New-Zealand
 Personal Trader contains an unvaluable database with more than 10,000 tickers and company names (Nasdaq : 4800+, Nyse : 3700+, Paris : 900+, Milano : 350, Frankfurt : 500+).
If you don't know a ticker, don't panic, you can retrieve it with the company name.

 License : Shareware, $25
 Author/Publisher : Coliada
 Modification Date : July 4, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 10.0 MB

 Home Page 

 Portfolio Analysis Review 1.0.3 

This software is a companion to our highly acclaimed Stock Investment
Guide. As your portfolio grows, the influence newly purchased stocks
have a smaller imact on your success as an investor when compared to the
overall portfolio. It makes sense to spend time reviewing your portfolio
every month. Portfolio Analysis Review has some really great features,
like the ability to sort your portfolio many different ways.

 License : Sharware, $20
 Author/Publisher : Churr Software
 Modification Date : July 26, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.1 MB

 Home Page 

 PowerTicker 2.7.2 

PowerTicker is a specialized Internet browser
that gives you quick and easy access to the free stock market
information provided by financial websites around the world. You can
watch any number of your stocks roll by on the ticker, call up a
detailed report for each of your favorites, or add your latest purchase
to your growing portfolio.

 License : Shareware, $50
 Author/Publisher : White Nile Software
 Modification Date : February 8, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.1 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 2.9 MB

 Download 
File Size: 6.3 MB

 Home Page 

 Pro Analyst 5.1 

Designed by traders for traders, Pro Analyst provides utility beyond
comparison. Streaming real-time charts, analytics, alerts, market-pulse
reports, news and more! Track your choice of symbols, stocks, futures
and options, trade by trade, minute by minute, stay informed as the
action happens, like having your own personal seat on the exchange.

 License : Demo, $99 per year
 Author/Publisher : Trendsetter Software
 Modification Date : April 22, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 7.5 MB

 Home Page 

 ProTA 3.21 

ProTA is state of the art market charting, technical analysis and portfolio analysis for
the stock market, mutual funds, futures and options markets.

ProTA Gold adds custom indicators, trade modeling, system testing, parameter optimizations
and database scanning.

 License : Shareware, $129, Gold $299
 Author/Publisher : Jeffery Bizon/BeeSoft
 Modification Date : December 5, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 16.2 MB

 Download 
File Size: 16.4 MB - ProTA Gold

 Home Page 

 QuoteFiler 1.51 

QuoteFiler downloads free historical and intraday stock quotes from
Yahoo! Finance. The quotes can then be easily imported into Beesoft's
ProTA or ProTA Gold charting applications.

 License : Shareware, $20
 Author/Publisher : Charles Hines
 Modification Date : May 11, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X

 Download 
File Size: 3.1 MB

 Home Page 

 Stalker 2.0.3 

Stalker provides several tools to help you manage your stock
investments. From a simple watch list that updates every two minutes, to
calculators that help you determine the prices you want to buy and sell
your stocks. By adding your current stock positions into the Portfolio,
you can see how the value of your investments are changing throughout
the day.

 License : Shareware, $10
 Author/Publisher : Goosfrabasoft
 Modification Date : November 14, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 4.8 MB

 Home Page 

 Stock Analysis and Portfolio Review 2.0.4 

A stock caught your attention? Should you invest? Time to do research is
always limited. You need powerful tools to help you and save time. SA+PR
is one such tool. Does the stock display steady growth, or does it
display erratic Sales and Earnings? With SA+PR carry out a comprehensive
Fundamental Value Analysis in minutes. Intuitive graphs allow you to SEE
how the stock has been doing for up to the past 10 years.

Do you have an existing stock portfolio? Is your investment still worth
holding on to, or is there reason to sell? SA+PR can visually SHOW you
changes in a company's growth trend. SEE when a stock is Overvalued or
Undervalued. By reviewing your stocks monthly, you can keep on top of
stock portfolio investments.

 License : Shareware, $69
 Author/Publisher : Intuitec Software Inc.
 Modification Date : March 4, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.1 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 2.7 MB

 Home Page 

 Stock Investment Guide 2.3.3 

Churr Software's Stock Investment Guide (SIG) software has great
features to make it easy to perform stock club analysis.
 * Reads & Writes standard SSG data file formats.
 * Fully integrated with NAIC's OPS ssg data.
 * Adjustable Data Plot for Visual Analysis. Scale Pretax Income or Sales plots up or down on the graph for easy reading.
 * Automatically Update the Stock Price & 52-week High and Low
 * Omit/Ignore "outlier" data by clicking the year on the data graph.
 * Plots additional quarterly EPS following the last fiscal year.
 * If using downloaded SSG data files, displays S & P 5-year growth estimates.

 License : Shareware, $40
 Author/Publisher : Churr Software
 Modification Date : January 8, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 5.9 MB

 Home Page 

 Stock Portfolio 2.5 

It allows you to track the prices for US and UK stocks, track the
indices, view graphs and detailed information on the stocks and link to
the Yahoo! Finance pages. You can also add details of your stock
purchases and track your profit (or loss) on your holdings. The program
allows you to print out the details of your stocks and also has an
automatic price update feature that lets you leave the program to update
prices according to a set interval. The program is capable of working in
US dollars or GB pounds and will convert portfolio values to your
selected currency.

 License : Shareware, $27
 Author/Publisher : Curlypaws Software
 Modification Date : April 8, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 2.8 MB

 Home Page 

 Stock WatchTower 2.1.2 

Macintosh Investment Analysis and Charting Software
 * Automatically group stocks meeting your criteria
 - Track market conditions: are stocks rising or falling?
 - Find the growth stocks with the highest growth rates.
 - Further categorize by insider activity, institutional activity, or price and volume action.
 - Find stocks with high growth rates, but low P/E ratios
 - Find high dividend stocks near their ex-dividend date
 - Find stocks with high short activity
 - Create your own criteria
 * Use Daily and Weekly charts and tables of information to fully analyze the stocks that show the greatest potential in order to decide when to buy a stock.
 * Set price targets to improve your patience in finding proper entry points.
 * Track stocks that you own to decide when to sell.

 License : Shareware, $50
 Author/Publisher : WillStein Software
 Modification Date : November 25, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 22.8 MB

 Home Page 

 StockXloader 3.4.2 

StockXloader is a Mac OS X application for fully automated downloading
of stock market quotes and indexes to the technical analysis program
ProTA or ProTA Gold from BeeSoft (http://beesoft.net) - effectively
building an arbitrarily large database of tickers (symbols) containing
historical quotes for the open/high/low/close of each day!
 It collects quotes from:
 the archives at Yahoo! Finance for any stock exchange in the world;
 the archive at Affarsvarlden (a Swedish business magazine) carrying quotes and many indexes for the Stockholm Stock Exchange.
 The downloaded information is automatically imported into the
database of ProTA. In the process, it informs ProTA which tickers are
stocks, which are mutual funds, and which are indexes so that any new
ticker is put into the right category by ProTA.

 License : Shareware, $75
 Author/Publisher : BragIt
 Modification Date : January 6, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 552 Kb

 Home Page 

 Stox 1.0 

Research, tracking and analysis - 
A powerful tool for the new or experienced investor. Stox cuts through
the noise to give you concise, timely information to help you manage
your stock portfolio in a simple, single window format.

 License : Shareware, $50
 Author/Publisher : JoeSoft
 Modification Date : December 19, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 11.5 MB

 Home Page 

 Ticker 3.0.4 

Ticker downloads stock quotes and displays them in a list.
 * New toolbar and metal look
 * Stock Mode: Shows you how your stocks did today
 * Portfolio Mode: Shows you how your stocks have done since you bought them
 * Unlimited stock list size
 * Open individual stocks into floating windows
 * Color system helps visualize the movement of industry groups
 * Alerts if stock changes by more than a certain percentage
 * Links to Yahoo Finance charts and headlines

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Soporific Software
 Modification Date : June 4, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 126 Kb

 Home Page 

 Trade Manager Pro 1.0 

Now you can manage your trades like a professional. Keeping track of
your trading performance and trading capital are hallmarks of successful
traders. The "Trade Manager Pro" software, developed for the modern Mac
OS X operating system, will automatically track your trades, manage
risk, calculate trade size, and track your trading performance.

 License : Demo, $150
 Author/Publisher : DSG Tradewise
 Modification Date : November 19, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 84 MB

 Home Page 

 Trade Strategist 1.4.2 

Trade Strategist allows you to take control of the stock market, by
designing and testing trading strategies. With more than 90 built-in
functions and indicators that can be combined together in an almost
infinite variety of ways, Trade Strategist helps you to distinguish the
science from the superstition when it comes to the stock market.

Trade Strategist belongs to a field of finance called Technical
Analysis, in which trading decisions are based on measurable quantities,
rather than the emotions or psychology of the trader. A 'technical'
trader makes use of charts and indicators that derive from price and
other data to decide when to buy or sell stock.

 License : Shareware, $30, Pro $50
 Author/Publisher : Drew McCormack
 Modification Date : December 31, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 3.7 MB

 Home Page 

 Denotes Mac OS X Intel Native 
 Denotes Mac OS X Intel & PPC Native 
 Denotes Mac OS X PPC Native 
 Denotes Mac OS 8/9 PPC Native 
 Denotes Mac OS 680x0 Native 
 Denotes Non-OS Specific Code 

 Back to the Main Page of Pure Mac