Pure Mac: Alternative OS - Software for Macintosh 

 Alternative OS 

 Web 

 Pure-Mac.com 

 680x0 
 603 & 604 PPC 
 G3, G4 & G5 
 G3, G4 & G5 
 Dual-Boot 
 Virtualization 

 A/UX 
 Debian/m68k 
 Linux/m68k 
 NetBSD 
 OpenBSD 

 BeOS 
 Debian/PowerPC 
 Linux/PPC for NuBus 
 Mandriva Linux 
 mkLinux 
 NetBSD 
 ROCK Linux 

 Darwin 
 Debian/PowerPC 
 CRUX 
 Fedora 
 Gentoo Linux 
 Mac OS X Server 
 Mandriva Linux 

 mkLinux 
 NetBSD 
 OpenBSD 
 ROCK Linux 
 Ubuntu Linux 
 Yellow Dog Linux 

 Apple Boot Camp 

 Parallels 
 Parallels Server 
 VirtualBox 
 VMware Fusion 

 You may also want to check the Emulators section 

 History of Linux for the PowerPC 
 penguinppc.org 

 Pure Mac 
 Games 

 Action 
 Arcade 
 Board 
 Card 
 Emulators 
 Flight Sims 
 Frivolous 
 Game Utilities 
 MMOG 
 Puzzle 
 RPG 
 Sports & Racing 
 Strategy 
 Word 

 Home 

 Astronomy 
 Calculators & Math 
 Charts & Graphs 
 Collections 
 Health 
 Hobbies & Crafts 
 Kid Stuff 
 Language 
 Parental Control 
 Recipes 
 Science 
 Teaching Aids 
 Typing 
 Weather 

 Internet 

 Collaboration 
 Distributed Computing 
 Download Managers 
 Email 
 FTP 
 Internet Utilities 
 iPhone 
 IRC & IM 
 Online Games 
 Peer-to-Peer 
 Radio 
 Remote Access 
 Usenet 
 Video Conferencing 
 VoIP 

 Multimedia 

 Audio 
 CAD 
 Comics 
 DTP 
 eBook 
 Font Utilities 
 Graphics 
 iTunes & MP3 
 Media Center 
 Music 
 Photoshop Plug-ins 
 Presentation 
 3D & Animation 
 Screen Capture 
 Video 

 System 

 Alternative OS 
 Classic OS Updates 
 Command Line 
 Contextual Menus 
 Cross-Platform 
 CSMs 
 Drivers 
 Face-Lift 
 Launchers 
 Olden 
 Screen Savers 
 Security 
 System Enhancements 
 Virus 
 Widgets 
 X11 

 Utilities 

 Backup 
 Business 
 Compression 
 Database 
 Diagnostics 
 Disk & File 
 Finance 
 Handhelds 
 Network 
 PIMs 
 Programming 
 Spreadsheets 
 Stocks 
 Telephony 
 Text Editors 
 Time 

 WWW 

 Auctions 
 Browsers 
 Browser Add-ons 
 The Cloud & SSBs 
 HTML Editors 
 Page Rippers 
 RSS & Podcasting 
 Site Tweaking 
 Social Networking 
 Web Cams 
 Web Graphics 
 Web Server 

 Extension Key 
 Pure Picks 
 Software Index 

 Apple Boot Camp 2.1 

This update addresses issues and improves
compatibility with Microsoft Windows XP and Microsoft Windows Vista
running on a Mac computer using Boot Camp. It is highly recommended for
all Boot Camp users.

With the introduction of Leopard, the Boot Camp Beta program has ended.
The Boot Camp Beta software will expire on December 31, and Apple won't
offer further updates of Boot Camp Beta for Mac OS X Tiger.

Leopard is the world's most advanced operating system. So advanced, it
even lets you run Windows if there's a PC application you need to use.
Just get a copy of Windows and start up Boot Camp, now included with
Leopard. Setup is simple and straightforward - just as you'd expect with
a Mac.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Apple
 Modification Date : April 24, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.5 or higher - Intel-based Mac - Microsoft Windows XP or Vista

 Download 
File Size: 215 MB - for Windows XP

 Download 
File Size: 228 MB - for Windows Vista 32

 Download 
File Size: 236 MB - for Windows Vista 64

 Home Page 

 A/UX 3.1.1 

A/UX is Apple's implementation of Unix (it's Apple's UNix) for various
Macintosh computers. A/UX merges two computing environments, Unix and the
Macintosh Finder OS, and provides the full functionality of both.

A/UX is based on AT & T Unix System V.2.2 with numerous extensions from V.3, V.4
(such as streams) and BSD 4.2/4.3 (such as networking, the Fast File System,
job control, lpr, NFS with Yellow Pages, SCCS and sendmail 5.64). It also
provides full POSIX compliance. A/UX provides SYSV, BSD and POSIX compatiblity
switches and libraries. A/UX is fully compiant with the System V Interface
Definition (SVID).

A/UX provides all three standard shells: sh, csh and ksh. X-Windows is also
provided standard.

A/UX 3.x.x incorporates System 7 for the Macintosh allowing for the use of
the vast majority of Macintosh applications under A/UX. System7 and Unix
and fully integrated under A/UX 3.x.x with the Unix file system being seen as
a disk drive by the Finder.

 License : Commercial, $619- Good luck finding a copy 
 Author/Publisher : Apple
 Modification Date : 1994 (no longer supported)
 Requirements : A/UX 3.0 works on the MacII (with PMMU _or_ 68030 upgrade with FDHD ROM's
installed), IIx, IIcx, IIci, IIfx, SE/30, IIsi (with 68882 chip) and the
Quadra 700|900|950 computers. A/UX 3.0.1 (and later) adds support for the
Q800 and Centris Machines (the Centrises _must_ have the real 68040 w/FPU -
See Q & A #G.03). A/UX will run on the Quadra 610 and 650s (recall that A/UX
requires the _real_ 68040 chip!) with a little bit of work. 

 A/UX FAQ

 jagubox mirror 

 BeOS R4.5-PPC 

The BeOS is, quite simply, an operating system. An operating system
provides programmers with a means of performing input and output to and
from the hardware of a computer. For instance, an operating system helps
applications display information on the screen, and tells applications
where the user clicked the mouse. Computers can often run several
different operating systems; Intel-based PCs can run Windows 3.1,
Windows 95, or Windows NT, for instance, while Power Macintosh hardware
could only run the Mac OS. Now users of either hardware platform have an
additional choice: the BeOS. The BeOS is also particularly well-suited
to digital media creation.

You may be able to find a used copy on eBay etc.

 License : Commercial
 Author/Publisher : Be Incorporated
 Modification Date : June 18, 1999
 Requirements : Most 603 and 604 PPC Macs

 BeOS for Power Macintosh FAQ 

 BeBits 

 Home Page 

 CRUX PPC 2.0 

CRUX PPC is a port for the PowerPC platform of CRUX. It's a GNU system
with a Linux kernel that runs on NewWorld PowerPC computers. The
included software works at its best speed on 750 (G3) and 74xx (G4)
CPUs. CRUX PPC supports PegasosII and the major part of Apple's
computers (Dual CPU included) and has special features (such as CPU
Frequency Scaling) for laptops.

CRUX PPC is a lightweight GNU/Linux distribution targeted at experienced
Linux users. The primary focus of this distribution is "keep it simple",
which is reflected in a simple tarball-based package system, BSD-style
init scripts, and a relatively small collection of trimmed packages. The
secondary focus is utilization of new Linux features and recent tools
and libraries. CRUX PPC also has an innovative ports system which makes
it easy to install and upgrade applications.

CRUX PPC is based on the Per's releases of CRUX for x86. It contains
software written by a lot of different people, each software comes with
its own license, chosen by its author. Parts written by CRUX PPC Team
are to intend as free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Per Liden/Giulivo Navigante
 Modification Date : September 30, 2004
 Requirements : PPC

 Download Page 

 Home Page 

 Darwin 9.4 

Darwin is a version of the BSD UNIX operating system that offers
advanced networking, services such as the Apache web server, and support
for both Macintosh and UNIX file systems. It was originally released in
March 1999. Darwin currently runs on PowerPC-based Macintosh computers,
and is being ported to Intel processor-based computers and compatible
systems by the Darwin community.

Apple's open source projects allow developers to customize and enhance
key Apple software. Through the open source model, Apple engineers and
the open source community collaborate to create better, faster and more
reliable products for our users.

Beneath the appealing, easy-to-use interface of Mac OS X is a rock-solid
foundation that is engineered for stability, reliability, and
performance. This foundation is a core operating system commonly known
as Darwin. Darwin integrates a number of technologies, most importantly
Mach 3.0, operating-system services based on 4.4BSD (Berkeley Software
Distribution), high-performance networking facilities, and support for
multiple integrated file systems.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Apple
 Modification Date : June 30, 2008
 Requirements : Darwin runs on most PowerPC G3, G4, G5 and several 604-based Apple Macintosh systems and Intel

 Darwin Releases 

 Get your Apple Public Source License 

 Home Page 

 Debian/m68k Linux 3.0 

The Motorola 680x0 series of processors have powered personal computers and workstations since the mid-1980s. Debian currently runs on the 68020, 68030, 68040 and 68060 processors.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Debian.org
 Modification Date : July 19, 2002
 Requirements : Motorola 680x0 series of processors

 Getting Debian 

 Release Information 

 Stable Release Information 

 Home Page 

 Debian/PowerPC Linux 3.0 

The PowerPC is a RISC microprocessor developed by IBM and Motorola. The
first such chip was the 601, released in 1992. After that, the 603 and
604 series were developed, then 750, also known as the G3, after which
came the G4 series.

Linux for the PowerPC was first released at the 2.2.x version of
the kernel. The primary resource for PowerPC Linux development is
 penguinppc , which includes
the latest released and development
 Linux PowerPC kernel
sources .

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Debian.org
 Modification Date : July 19, 2002
 Requirements : PPC Linux runs on a wide range of hardware,
from embedded systems like the TiVo Series 1 to Power Macintosh desktops
all the way up to high-end pSeries servers. Processors supported include
the embedded families: 405, 440, 850, 860, 8500; the desktop families:
603, 604, 750 (G3), 74xx (G4), 970 (G5); and the server families:
POWER3, RS64, POWER4, POWER5.

 Getting Debian 

 Release Information 

 Stable Release Information 

 Home Page 

 Fedora FC3 

The Fedora Project is a Red-Hat-sponsored and community-supported open
source project. It is also a proving ground for new technology that may
eventually make its way into Red Hat products. It is not a supported
product of Red Hat, Inc.

The goal of The Fedora Project is to work with the Linux community to
build a complete, general purpose operating system exclusively from free
software. Development will be done in a public forum. The project will
produce time-based releases of Fedora Core about 2-3 times a year with a
public release schedule. The Red Hat engineering team will continue to
participate in the building of Fedora Core and will invite and encourage
more outside participation than was possible in Red Hat Linux. By using
this more open process, we hope to provide an operating system that uses
free software development practices and is more appealing to the open
source community.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : The Fedora Project
 Modification Date : November 15, 2004
 Requirements : PPC

 Home Page 

 Fedora Core on your iBook (or Mac) 

 Gentoo Linux 2005.1-r1 

We produce Gentoo Linux, a special flavor of Linux that can be
automatically optimized and customized for just about any application or
need. Extreme performance, configurability and a top-notch user and
developer community are all hallmarks of the Gentoo experience.

Thanks to a technology called Portage, Gentoo Linux can become an ideal
secure server, development workstation, professional desktop, gaming
system, embedded solution or something else -- whatever you need it to
be. Because of its near-unlimited adaptability, we call Gentoo Linux a
metadistribution.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Gentoo Foundation, Inc.
 Modification Date : November 21, 2005
 Requirements : Support for x86, AMD64, PowerPC (including G5), UltraSparc, Alpha and MIPS processors

 Where to Get Gentoo Linux 

 Mirrors 

 Gentoo Linux/PPC Handbook 

 Gentoo Linux PowerPC Development 

 Home Page 

 Linux/m68k 2.2.5 

A work in progress bringing Linux to 68k Macs.
This Project Has Not Released Any Files

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Project: Linux for 68k Macintoshes
 Modification Date : September 4, 2003
 Requirements : Macintoshes with a Motorola 68020, 030, or 040 CPU and an MMU. Includes some II* and most LC/Centris/Quadra/Performa *** machines.

 Project Info

 Home Page 

 Linux/PPC for NuBus 2.4.27 

Linux/PPC has been ported to NuBus Power Macs since June 2000. The current range of hardware support is somewhat comparable to MkLinux/PPC. Some machines are better supported and some not so well.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Project: PPC/Linux for NuBus Power Macs
 Modification Date : August 11, 2004
 Requirements : NuBus Power Macintoshes, PowerBooks, Performas and compatibles

 Project Info

 Home Page 

 Mac OS X Server 10.5.4 

Host Macintosh and Windows workgroups. Set up complex network services.
Deploy dynamic web sites and powerful Internet services. Run enterprise
applications. Mac OS X Server melds the most popular technologies from
the open source community with the latest version of BSD - the
long-standing foundation on which the Internet was built.

 License : Purchase for $499 (10 client) to $999 (unlimited client)
 Author/Publisher : Apple
 Modification Date : June 30, 2008
 Requirements : G4 867MHz or higher

 Home Page 

 Mandriva Linux 2005 

Mandriva Linux (formerly known as Mandrake Linux) was created in 1998
with the goal of making Linux easier to use for everyone. At that time,
Linux was already well-known as a powerful and stable operating system.
With this innovative approach, Mandriva offers all the power and
stability of Linux to both individuals and professional users in an
easy-to-use and pleasant environment. Thousands of new users are
discovering Linux each and every day and finding it a complete
replacement for their previous operating system. Linux as a server or
workstation has no reason to be jealous of any other more established
operating systems. Free/Open Source Free Software licensing govern the
development and redistribution of Mandriva Linux. FOSS licensing
provides everyone the right to copy, distribute, examine, modify and
improve the system as long as the results of these modifications are
returned to the community. It is this development model that allows
Mandrivalinux Linux to collect the best ideas from developers & users
from across the globe to result in a rich variety of techniques and
solutions.

 License : Join the Club
 Author/Publisher : MandrakeSoft
 Modification Date : April 21, 2005
 Requirements : PowerPC with PCI (not NuBus)

 Mirrors

 Download Page

 Home Page 

 mkLinux DR3 

MkLinux is a project begun by the OSF Research Institute (now Silicomp RI) and Apple Computer to port Linux, a freely distributed UNIX-like operating system, to a variety of Power Macintosh platforms running on top of OSF Research Institute's implementation of the Mach microkernel.

Beginning in the summer of 1998, development work on MkLinux transitioned from Apple and OSF to a community-led effort.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Apple/OSF Research Institute
 Modification Date : August 1, 1998
 Requirements : Most non 603 based PPC Macs and G3s

 mkLinux.org 

 NetBSD 2.1 

The NetBSD Project is a collective volunteer effort to produce a freely available and redistributable UNIX-like operating system. 
NetBSD runs on a broad range of hardware platforms and is highly portable.
It comes with complete source code, and is user-supported.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Various contributors
 Modification Date : November 2, 2005
 Requirements : Most 68k and PPC Macs

 Parent Directory

 Download Page

 NetBSD/mac68k Home Page

 NetBSD/macPPC Home Page

 Home Page 

 OpenBSD 4.2 

The OpenBSD project produces a FREE, multi-platform 4.4BSD-based
UNIX-like operating system. Our efforts emphasize portability,
standardization, correctness, proactive security and integrated
cryptography. OpenBSD supports binary emulation of most programs from
SVR4 (Solaris), FreeBSD, Linux, BSD/OS, SunOS and HP-UX.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : OpenBSD Project
 Modification Date : November 1, 2007
 Requirements : Supported PPC Hardware , Supported 68k Hardware 

 OpenBSD/mac68k

 OpenBSD/macppc

 Parent Directory

 Home Page 

 Parallels Desktop 4.0 build 3846 

Parallels Desktop for Mac is the first solution that gives Apple users
the ability to run Windows at the same time as Mac OS X in a secure,
stable, isolated virtual machine. Parallels Desktop works with any
Intel-powered Apple, including the iMac, Mac Mini, MacBook and MacBook
Pro.

 License : Demo, $80
 Author/Publisher : Parallels, Inc
 Modification Date : August 30, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS 10.4.11 or higher including Snow Leopard, Intel-Based Mac

 Download 
File Size: 175 MB

 Home Page 

 Parallels Server 3.0 build 2232 

The world's first server virtualization solution for the Mac platform.
 Take your Apple Xserve to the next level. Built on Parallels' hypervisor architecture
 and award-winning virtualization technology, Parallels Server for Mac enables organizations to:
 - Run the world's leading server applications (Microsoft Exchange, Oracle Database, Microsoft SharePoint) on their Apple Xserves
 - Lower software cost through increased flexibility in software options for the Xserve
 - Maximize the Xserve's full potential by increasing utilization
 - Effectively address developers' growing need to develop multiple platform application across Mac OS X, Windows and Linux platforms
 - Ensure business continuity with cross-platform migration and system back ups

 License : Demo, $1250
 Author/Publisher : Parallels, Inc
 Modification Date : May 29, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X Server 10.4.11 or 10.5.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 170.0 MB

 Home Page 

 ROCK Linux 3.0 

ROCK is a Distribution Build Kit. You can configure your personal build
of ROCK and easily build your own distribution (see the screenshots). It
is software for managing operating environments. In a way it is a
software development toolkit for building OS solutions.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : rocklinux.org
 Modification Date : July 27, 2006
 Requirements : Most of the ROCK Linux development is done on x86 Hardware. But ROCK Linux also supports the Alpha AXP, ARM, HPPA/HPPA64, ia64, MIPS, PowerPC , Sparc32/Sparc64 and x86-64 architectures.

 Download Directory 

 Home Page 

 Ubuntu Linux 6.06.2 

Note to PowerPC (PPC) users: The PowerPC platform of computers is not
supported by the newest versions of Ubuntu. However Ubuntu 6.06 is still
supported and available for your machine. 
Ubuntu is a complete desktop Linux operating system, freely available
with both community and professional support. The Ubuntu community is
built on the ideas enshrined in the Ubuntu Manifesto: that software
should be available free of charge, that software tools should be usable
by people in their local language and despite any disabilities, and that
people should have the freedom to customize and alter their software in
whatever way they see fit.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Ubuntu 
 Modification Date : September 21, 2007
 Requirements : G3's with USB and higher

 Download 
File Size: 699 MB

 Home Page 

 VirtualBox 2.2 

VirtualBox is a family of powerful x86 virtualization products for
enterprise as well as home use. Not only is VirtualBox an extremely
feature rich, high performance product for enterprise customers, it is
also the only professional solution that is freely available as Open
Source Software under the terms of the GNU General Public License (GPL).
See "About VirtualBox" for an introduction.

Presently, VirtualBox runs on Windows, Linux, Macintosh and OpenSolaris
hosts and supports a large number of guest operating systems including
but not limited to Windows (NT 4.0, 2000, XP, Server 2003, Vista),
DOS/Windows 3.x, Linux (2.4 and 2.6), and OpenBSD.

VirtualBox is being actively developed with frequent releases and has an
ever growing list of features, supported guest operating systems and
platforms it runs on. VirtualBox is a community effort backed by a
dedicated company: everyone is encouraged to contribute while Sun
ensures the product always meets professional quality criteria.

On this site, you can find sources, binaries, documentation and other
resources for VirtualBox. If you are interested in VirtualBox (both as a
user, or possibly as a contributor), this website is for you.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Sun Microsystems
 Modification Date : April 7, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 43.7 MB

 Home Page 

 VMware Fusion 2.0.5 

The new VMware desktop product for the Mac, codenamed Fusion, allows Intel-based Macs to
run x86 operating systems, such as Windows, Linux, NetWare and Solaris, in virtual
machines at the same time as Mac OS X. It is built on VMware's rock-solid and advanced
desktop virtualization platform that is used by over four million users today. With
Fusion, you can run traditional PC applications on your Mac: if you need to run PC
applications, you can now do so by leveraging the power of virtual machine technology.

 License : Demo, $80
 Author/Publisher : VMware
 Modification Date : June 23, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher, Intel-Based Mac

 Download 
File Size: 285 MB

 Home Page 

 Yellow Dog Linux 6.0 

Proven world-wide as the preferred Linux OS for the Power architecture,
v4.1 brings Terra Soft into its 8th year of Power Linux development and
support. Yellow Dog Linux v4.1 marks a returning point in Terra Soft's
effort to again provide a leading desktop Linux OS. Yellow Dog Linux
combines the preferred desktops KDE and Gnome with the latest sound and
graphic card support, leading (but not bleeding) edge kernels and
stable, functional compilers for code development. And of course, the
foundation applications and servers expected of all modern Linux
operating systems for web, database, email, and network services.

 License : Purchase for $60 with manual
 Author/Publisher : Terra Soft
 Modification Date : February 7, 2008
 Requirements : G3, G4 or G5

 Parent Directory

 6.1 Release December 3, 2009

 Home Page 

 Denotes Mac OS X Intel Native 
 Denotes Mac OS X Intel & PPC Native 
 Denotes Mac OS X PPC Native 
 Denotes Mac OS 8/9 PPC Native 
 Denotes Mac OS 680x0 Native 
 Denotes Non-OS Specific Code 

 Back to the Main Page of Pure Mac