Pure Mac: Usenet - Software for Macintosh 

 Usenet 

 Web 

 Pure-Mac.com 

 Servers 

 Clients 

 Utilities 

 INN 

 Hogwasher 
 iGrabNews 
 MacSOUP 
 MT-NewsWatcher 

 NewsHunter 
 NewzScape 
 OSXnews 
 Picture Patrol 
 PictureSnooper 

 Thoth 
 tin 
 Unison 
 unPoster 

 checkSum+ 1.2 
 Cocoa NewsPost 
 Decoder 
 MacHacha 
 MacPAR deLuxe 
 NZB Drop 
 Osiris 
 RAR 
 RAR Expander 

 Rarify 
 RarMachine 
 RarMe 
 Saving Face 
 SimplyRAR 
 Split&Concat 
 SuperNZB 
 UnRarX 
 XFacer 
 yEnc TZ 

 Giganews 
 Usenet 
 Newsgroups 
 Newsreaders.com 
 Usenet FAQs 

 Pure Mac 
 Games 

 Action 
 Arcade 
 Board 
 Card 
 Emulators 
 Flight Sims 
 Frivolous 
 Game Utilities 
 MMOG 
 Puzzle 
 RPG 
 Sports & Racing 
 Strategy 
 Word 

 Home 

 Astronomy 
 Calculators & Math 
 Charts & Graphs 
 Collections 
 Health 
 Hobbies & Crafts 
 Kid Stuff 
 Language 
 Parental Control 
 Recipes 
 Science 
 Teaching Aids 
 Typing 
 Weather 

 Internet 

 Collaboration 
 Distributed Computing 
 Download Managers 
 Email 
 FTP 
 Internet Utilities 
 iPhone 
 IRC & IM 
 Online Games 
 Peer-to-Peer 
 Radio 
 Remote Access 
 Usenet 
 Video Conferencing 
 VoIP 

 Multimedia 

 Audio 
 CAD 
 Comics 
 DTP 
 eBook 
 Font Utilities 
 Graphics 
 iTunes & MP3 
 Media Center 
 Music 
 Photoshop Plug-ins 
 Presentation 
 3D & Animation 
 Screen Capture 
 Video 

 System 

 Alternative OS 
 Classic OS Updates 
 Command Line 
 Contextual Menus 
 Cross-Platform 
 CSMs 
 Drivers 
 Face-Lift 
 Launchers 
 Olden 
 Screen Savers 
 Security 
 System Enhancements 
 Virus 
 Widgets 
 X11 

 Utilities 

 Backup 
 Business 
 Compression 
 Database 
 Diagnostics 
 Disk & File 
 Finance 
 Handhelds 
 Network 
 PIMs 
 Programming 
 Spreadsheets 
 Stocks 
 Telephony 
 Text Editors 
 Time 

 WWW 

 Auctions 
 Browsers 
 Browser Add-ons 
 The Cloud & SSBs 
 HTML Editors 
 Page Rippers 
 RSS & Podcasting 
 Site Tweaking 
 Social Networking 
 Web Cams 
 Web Graphics 
 Web Server 

 Extension Key 
 Pure Picks 
 Software Index 

 checkSum+ 1.5.2 

checkSum+ will handle md5, sfv & cvs files (please, do not confuse with
cvs files, since these can be any kind of database file). These files
store "checksum" information about files, and will allow this and other
applications know if the related files are or not corrupted. You will
often find these files in USENET newsgroups and other places, where
there is a risk of data loss. So, the original distributor of some
files, usually *large* files, will create and also distribute some of
these files, so the final recipient of such files can check for the
integrity of these. This is very useful, eg, for multi-segment files.
When you attempt to join them, if one of them is corrupted, the attempt
will simply fail, and you won't know what segment is corrupted. But
using these files (md5, sfv or cvs), you can know what is the bad file,
and re-download it again, instead of re-downloading all the stuff.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Pescados Software
 Modification Date : November 25, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 216 Kb

 Home Page 

 Cocoa NewsPost 1.8 

Do you have Music you want heard? Images you want seen? Cocoa NewsPost
is the answer you've been waiting for. No more fighting with Netscape or
your other news readers. Cocoa NewsPost is fast, simple and yet VERY
powerful. It not only posts your files but will generate checksums and
PAR files so that your post comes out usable on the other end. All you
need is material, Cocoa NewsPost will do the rest.

 License : Shareware, $19
 Author/Publisher : AGDesign Laze E Software
 Modification Date : January 21, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 898 Kb

 Home Page 

 Decoder 4.0.4 

Designed to decode files that have been converted to a different format
so that they can be more easily downloaded or e-mailed. Decoder will
decode AppleSingle, BinHex, MacBinary(versions I, II, and III),
UUencoded, MIME (base64, etc), Zip, Tar, gz and yEnc formats. Just drag and drop the
encoded files onto the Decoder application icon and Decoder can detect
the encoding scheme and decode accordingly.

 License : Shareware, $20
 Author/Publisher : John Daniel/Etresoft
 Modification Date : March 30, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 2.0 MB

 Home Page 

 Hogwasher 4.3 

Hogwasher is the ultimate newsgroup browser for OS X. File downloads in multiple
connections across multiple servers, thread trees and extensive filtering for keeping your
discussions accessible, and a complete email client just in case.

 License : Shareware, $49
 Author/Publisher : Asar Corporation
 Modification Date : December 22, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 8.2 MB

 Home Page 

 iGrabNews 1.2.2 

iGrabNews allows you to download files (pictures, audio, video...) from
usenet newsgroups (usually alt.binaries.*). iGrabNews is not a common
newsreader : there is no threaded display of articles. Features: 
Multi Server. 
 Multi Groups. 
 Multi threaded (You can simultaneously download multiple files at the same time). 
 Download Queue (You can queue hundreds of downloads, that will be processed when connections are available). 
 Displays multi-part articles as one file to easily browse posted files. 
 Live display of posted files while refreshing the group. 
 Live and powerful search among thousands of files. 
 Incremental and Full refresh of groups. 
 Automatic decoding (yEnc, uuencode, BinHex). 
 NNTP Authentication.
 Auto refresh groups / Auto get files 
 Read/Post text articles 
 Improved NZB File support 
 Improved Decoding 
 Queue Download Resume 

 License : Shareware, $10
 Author/Publisher : Samuel Lellouche
 Modification Date : August 18, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 3.7 MB

 Home Page 

 INN 2.4.3 

The InterNetNews package (INN) is a complete Usenet system. It includes
innd, an NNTP server, and nnrpd, a newsreading server. INN separates
hosts that feed you news from those that have users reading news. INN
was originally written by Rich Salz. ISC took over development of INN in 1996 after Rich was
unable to continue supporting it and many variants of the software were
forming.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Internet Systems Consortium
 Modification Date : March 22, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X

 Download 
File Size: 1.8 MB

 Home Page 

 MacHacha 3.3 

 If you usually download movies, music or large archives from news groups, public web servers, streamload, edonkey or whatever place, this is your tool.
 If you'd like transportate a 5MB document in a floppy disk to your home, or fit a 400MB archive in two ZIP discs, or even move a 7GB film to a computer with a DVD burner and you only have a single CD-RW, this is your tool.
 If you wish share a 6MB document with your PC-friends over the internet and you can only put up online chunks of 1MB because of your ISP restrictions, this is your tool.
 13
MacHacha will do a simple job: split archives into smaller parts and join them when requested.
 What are the supported formats by MacHacha? 
Currently, both split & join: Hacha, WinSplit, FastSplit, Split&Concat, HJSplit & UNIX/Linux. You can also join documents from Hacha's newest version and Windows MasterSplitter (see FAQ in this distribution) and RAR normal and multi-segment files.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Pescados Software
 Modification Date : February 16, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 972 Kb

 Home Page 

 MacPAR deLuxe 3.8 

MacPAR deLuxe is a utility program that runs on Macintosh OSX. It is useful to you if you upload and download binary files to and from Internet newsgroups.
It's main functions are:
 * Ensure error-free transport of the data by means of so called "par" and "par2" files;
 * Unpack data from a RAR archive (most of the files in newsgroups are compressed with rar);
 * Automatically start an external program (such as Stuffit Expander) to process downloaded files.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Gerard Putter
 Modification Date : March 18, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.6 MB

 Home Page 

 MacSOUP 2.8.3 

MacSOUP is an offline reader for Usenet newsgroups and Internet e-mail.
If you don't know what newsgroups are, you probably don't need this
program. MacSOUP is primarily a newsreader, its e-mail capabilities are
somewhat rudimentary compared to "real" e-mail clients.

 License : Shareware, $20
 Author/Publisher : Stefan Kurth
 Modification Date : December 15, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.6 MB

 Download 
File Size: 1.5 MB

 Home Page 

 MT-NewsWatcher 3.5.2 

MT-NewsWatcher is a Usenet news client for the Macintosh. Usenet is a
globally distributed news network over which many thousands of people
distribute messages every day, and which contains discussion groups on
virtually every topic under the sun. MT-NewsWatcher allows you to
quickly and efficiently target the articles you wish to read, with
sophisticated yet easy to use filtering, searching and sorting features.
The program also makes viewing and saving binaries from newsgroups easy,
and works transparently across multiple news servers.

MT-NewsWatcher is derived from an earlier program called simply
"NewsWatcher", by John Norstad of Northwestern University, but greatly
enhances that program's feature set.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Simon Fraser
 Modification Date : August 27, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.1 or higher and Mac OS 9

 Download 
File Size: 3.0 MB - version 3.5.3b3 - July 5, 2008

 Download 
File Size: 2.9 MB - version 3.5.2

 Download 
File Size: 1.4 MB - version 3.4

 Home Page 

 NewsHunter3 1.0.9 

Download pictures, movies, and files from newsgroups with NewsHunter.
Easy SetUp will have new users downloading quickly. NewsHunter can
download everything in your favorite newsgroups or just the articles you
select. NewsHunter supports yEnc, UUE, MIME, Base64, and other popular
encoding schemes. NewsHunter's Decoding tab lets you monitor the
progress of files being decoded and assembled and the image preview area
lets you see downloaded images and delete ones you don't like. Filter
out offending authors with a single click. Use friend filters to
download everything from authors you like. NewsHunter will let you seek
out, collect, organize, and enjoy everything your favorite newsgroups
have to offer.

 License : Shareware, $60
 Author/Publisher : Parker Software
 Modification Date : August 21, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X

 Download 
File Size: 2.2 MB

 Home Page 

 NewzScape 1.1.2 

Automatic binary downloader for power users.

 License : Shareware, $40
 Author/Publisher : TechSono
 Modification Date : October 2, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 5.2 MB

 Home Page 

 NZB Drop 1.3 

NZB Drop frees you from crawling through millions of headers to get at the content you
want. With an NZB file specifying your desired content, simply drag and drop unto NZB Drop
and experience the simplest, drop dead fastest way ever to retrieve files from Usenet
newsgroups.

 License : Shareware, $22
 Author/Publisher : Asar
 Modification Date : January 16, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 3.1 MB

 Home Page 

 Osiris 3.1 

A drag and drop application to post a folder or folders of files to
specified newgroups using Thoth or MT-Newswatcher.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Wooden Brain Concepts
 Modification Date : February 28, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher, MT-Newswatecher or Thoth

 Download 
File Size: 468 Kb

 Home Page 

 OSXnews 2.081 

OSXnews is a small, fast usenet newsreader for OS X. It is designed to
look and behave like Apple's Mail program and uses it for all mail
functions. It also uses the Webcore engine used in Safari to display
messages. It is actively being developed and the current version
supports many (though not all ) features people expect in a newsreader.
It also has some support for binary posts. At the moment this is limited
to single part yEnc posts. Full support is expected in upcoming
versions. 

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Anurodh Pokharel
 Modification Date : March 24, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 314 Kb

 Home Page 

 Picture Patrol 1.5.1 

Unlike ordinary newsreaders that require your constant intervention, Picture
Patrol independently downloads articles from your favorite newsgroups,
decodes pictures attached to them and saves these images into the
directories you set, neatly grouped by date and newsgroup.

 License : Shareware, $19
 Author/Publisher : Brainchild
 Modification Date : October 26, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher or Mac OS 9

 Download 
File Size: 2.1 MB

 Download 
File Size: 2.0 MB

 Home Page 

 PictureSnooperPE 1.0 

PictureSnooper is an Application that Searches Usenet NewsGroups for
binary files, while you are having dinner, at the movies, or even
sleeping. These binary files are usually pictures (and sometimes
executables and HTML files). After finding a binary file,
PictureSnooperX downloads the file, decodes that file, and saves that
file to the directory of your choice for later viewing.
This Version Adds Many New Exciting Features Including Unix Sockets (For Internet Connections), Unix Threads (Better Window Response), PAR and PAR2 Decoding (Along With Improved RAR Decoding), Automatic MPEG4 encoding of .AVI Formatted Movies, And All New Graphics Using MacOSX Native Cocoa.

 License : Shareware, $45
 Author/Publisher : QSys Software
 Modification Date : April 26, 2004
 Requirements : Mac OS X and Mac OS 8.5 and higher

 Download 
File Size: 4.9 MB - version 1.0

 Download 
File Size: 6.3 MB - version 1.1b - June 10, 2006

 Home Page 

 RAR 3.8 

RAR is a compression and decompression program that allows you to save files, password protect them, or even take large files and break them up into many smaller parts.
RAR is available for several platforms, and you can even download the decompression part for free.

 License : Shareware, $29
 Author/Publisher : Alexander Roshal
 Modification Date : Septebmer 16, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 614 Kb 

 Home Page 

 RAR Expander 0.83 

RAR Expander is a MacOSX program which extracts the files contained in
RAR archives. It supports both single and multi-part archives, and has
support for password-protected archives as well. It uses the official
unRAR library internally so it is fully compatible with archives
produced by WinRAR. RAR Expander also features AppleScript support, and
includes a few useful example scripts for expanding multiple archives at
once.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : rinzwind
 Modification Date : February 17, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 566 Kb

 Home Page 

 Rarify 0.8.1 

1. What is this
 This is a very simple interface to the rar binary. And RAR is a popular
compression format in the PC-side-of-the-life. Keep in mind that the RAR
format won't support OSX-specific flags (ie, resource fork). For
advanced options, use the rar binary in CLI mode itself, or look for
other interfaces.

2. Usage
 Use the Preferences window to adjust some settings (password if needed,
segments if needed, etc.) and then drop onto Rarify's icon your
file(s)/folder(s) in order to compress them.

3. Requirements & Installation
 Rarify will run under OS X 10.4 and 10.5, both Intel and PPC architectures. 
 1. Drop Rarify onto your favorite location.
 Due to licensing issues, I prefer you install the rar binary manually
yourself (so you can read its readme, read its license, purchase a copy
or whatever you wish).
 2. Install if needed the rar binary. To do so:
 -Go to http://www.rarlabs.com/ downloads section.
 -Choose your favorite download (usually, the newer version of the rar binary for OS X) and download it.
 -Unpack.
 -Make a new Finder window ("Apple + N"). Type "Apple + Shift + G". Type "/usr/local/bin".
 -Now, copy the unpacked "rar" binary file onto the "/usr/local/bin" window. Authenticate as administrator if needed.
 If you prefer not doing such a thing (!), you can copy as well the rar binary to the following destination (instead of "/usr/bin" or "/usr/local/bin"):
 -Rarify/Contents/Resources..
 3. You can instead use the "Update RAR binary..." menu item under the
application menu and these steps will be done automagically by Rarify.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Pescados Software
 Modification Date : November 23, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 86 Kb

 Home Page 

 RarMachine 1.0.3 

RarMachine is a powerful RAR archive manager, surely the simplest and
most integrated for Mac OS X.

You can use it to compress and extract all Rar files downloaded from the
internet or compressed on a PC with the power advantage of your Mac
System.

 License : Shareware, $8
 Author/Publisher : Philippe Durix & Gabriel Nion
 Modification Date : March 17, 2009
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 4.7 MB

 Home Page 

 RarMe 0.5 

RarMe is an AppleScript Studio application that uses the command line
utility rar (http://www.rarlabs.com/) to create RAR archives. In order
to use RarMe you must download and install rar. RarMe is beta software,
and is not guaranteed to work in any way. It should though. Mostly.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Armelline
 Modification Date : March 11, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 257 Kb - RarMe 0.5

 Home Page 

 Saving Face 1.2 

A handy little program for creating X-Face headers, which are used to encode a small bitmap as ASCII for inclusion in news postings and mail messages.
MT-NewsWatcher and MacSOUP utilize X-Faces.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Simon Fraser
 Modification Date : December 27, 1997
 Requirements : System 7 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 54 Kb

 Parent Directory 

 SimplyRAR 1.0.9 

RAR files are created with the RAR 3.51 command line program. PAR2 files
are created using the par2cmdline v0.4 program.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Reflections Visual Multimedia
 Modification Date : August 10, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 579 Kb

 Split&Concat 2.5 

In Internet newsgroups large files often are split into smaller parts
since messages can not be of more than a certain size to be able to post
them in newsgroups. For that reason you can find often binary files that
are split in parts like filename.mp3.001, filename.mp3.002,
filename.mp3.003, etc. While it is possible to put these parts together
using commands in the Terminal, not everybody is comfortable with the
command line.

That's why I decided to write a small utility that makes it easy to
split large files or merge pre-split files -- all from a comfortable OS
X interface. This simplifies the process of uploading and downloading
split files from the Internet, as well as making it possible to store a
large file across two or more CD-R's.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Loek Jehee
 Modification Date : April 2, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 4.2 MB

 Home Page 

 SuperNZB 3.2.1 

SuperNZB can download from any number of news servers using any number
of connections. Practically, you only need access to two good servers
that allow a few connections each to guarantee that you get all posts at
maximum speed. But if you have access to 100 crappy servers, you can do
that too.

 License : Shareware, $40
 Author/Publisher : TechSono Engineering
 Modification Date : January 17, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 5.2 MB

 Home Page 

 Thoth 1.8.4 

Thoth is a Usenet newsreader application for Macintosh. Its features include automatic viewing of downloaded images, binary
posting, flexible article filtering (kill files) and sorting, reference-based threading, and comprehensive multiple character set
support for reading and posting in non-English language and non-Latin alphabet newsgroups. It can be used both as an online
and offline newsreader.

 License : (no longer available) - Thoth 1.8.4 is available as a free update for existing Thoth users with valid registrations
 Author/Publisher : Brian Clark
 Modification Date : April 8, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2.8 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 2.1 MB - version 1.8.4 - for registered users of 1.7.x only

 Home Page 

 tin 1.8.3 

tin is a threaded NNTP and spool based UseNet newsreader for a variety of platforms.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : tin.org
 Modification Date : February 1, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X

 Download 
File Size: 1.9 MB

 Home Page 

 Unison 1.8.1 

Usenet. It's a global network filled with vivid discussions, unique music, pictures, and more.
And Unison? It's the second coming of Usenet: a fun, powerful, and Mac-like newsreader. Get on!
 General Features
 Improved Download Manager
 Pause your queue, restart groups, and more
 Rules
 Highlight or kill incoming items automatically
 Personalities
 Be whoever you want, whenever
 Favorites Drawer
 Switch groups without, er, leaving a group
 NZB File Support
 Download files from Usenet search engines
 Lots more!

 License : Shareware, $25
 Author/Publisher : Panic Software
 Modification Date : February 25, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 3.5 MB

 Home Page 

 unPoster 2.0.1 

Have you ever tried to see what files are available in a newsgroup with
several million posts? Not easy, right? We have designed The unPoster to
take all the work out of downloading files from these, and smaller
groups. The unPoster's Watcher will continuously download headers from
your favorite newsgroups and analyze them. Then, when you are ready to
download something, open up the unPoster's Lister and simply select the
files you want.

 License : Shareware, $40
 Author/Publisher : TechSono
 Modification Date : July 6, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 5.5 MB

 Home Page 

 UnRarX 2.2 

UnRarX is a Mac OS X Cocoa application that allows you to expand rar
archives and restore corrupted or missing archives using par2.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Peter Noriega
 Modification Date : July 6, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 716 Kb

 Home Page 

 Xfacer 1.0b3 

Xfacer is a simple application for cropping pictures and reducing them to 48-by-48-pixel black-and-white icons. For use in Usenet and email clients which support the Xface format.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Fritz Anderson
 Modification Date : August 18, 2002
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.1.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 179 Kb

 Home Page 

 yEnc TZ 1.1.3 

A utility program to decode yEnc encoded files, such as are used on usenet newsgroups.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : TurboZen
 Modification Date : July 27, 2004
 Requirements : Mac OS X or higher and System 7 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 148 Kb

 Download 
File Size: 132 Kb

 Download 
File Size: 120 Kb

 Home Page 

 Denotes Mac OS X Intel Native 
 Denotes Mac OS X Intel & PPC Native 
 Denotes Mac OS X PPC Native 
 Denotes Mac OS 8/9 PPC Native 
 Denotes Mac OS 680x0 Native 
 Denotes Non-OS Specific Code 

 Back to the Main Page of Pure Mac