Pure Mac: Weather - Software for Macintosh 

 Weather 

 Web 

 Pure-Mac.com 

 dWeather 
 Earth Browser 
 Global Warmth 
 Home Weather Center 
 MegaTrack 

 Meteorologist 
 PyWeather 
 Seasonality 
 Son of Weather Grok 

 WeatherDock 
 WeatherHawk-X 
 WeatherLink 
 WeatherManX 

 WeatherMenu 
 WeatherPop 
 WeatherTracker 
 wview 
 Wx 

 How's the Weather? by Jason Snell 

 National Weather Service 

 Weather.com 

 Weather Underground 

 Pure Mac 
 Education 
 Accessibility 
 Astronomy 
 Calculators & Math 
 Collections 
 Health 
 Hobbies & Crafts 
 Kid Stuff 
 Language 
 Parental Control 
 Recipes 
 Science 
 Teaching Aids 
 Typing 

 Games 
 Action 
 Arcade 
 Board 
 Card 
 Emulators 
 Flight Sims 
 Frivolous 
 Game Utilities 
 MMOG 
 Puzzle 
 RPG 
 Sports & Racing 
 Strategy 
 Word 

 Internet 
 Collaboration 
 Distributed Computing 
 Download Managers 
 Email 
 FTP 
 Internet Utilities 
 iPhone 
 IRC & IM 
 Online Games 
 Peer-to-Peer 
 Remote Access 
 Usenet 
 Video Conferencing 
 VoIP 

 Multimedia 
 Audio 
 CAD 
 Charts 
 DTP 
 Ebook 
 Font Utilities 
 Graphics 
 iTunes & MP3 
 Media Center 
 Music 
 Photoshop Plug-ins 
 Presentation 
 3D & Animation 
 Screen Capture 
 Video 

 System 
 Alternative OS 
 Classic Updates 
 Command Line 
 Contextual Menus 
 CSMs 
 Drivers 
 Face-Lift 
 Launchers 
 Olden 
 Screen Savers 
 Security 
 System Enhancements 
 Virus 
 Widgets 
 X11 

 Utilities 
 Backup 
 Compression 
 Cross-Platform 
 Database 
 Diagnostics 
 Disk & File 
 Finance 
 Handhelds 
 Network 
 PIMs 
 Programming 
 Spreadsheets 
 Telephony 
 Text Editors 
 Time 

 WWW 
 Auctions 
 Browsers 
 Browser Enhancements 
 Page Rippers 
 RSS & Podcasting 
 Site Management 
 Stock Tickers 
 Weather 
 Web Cams 
 Web Editors 
 Web Graphics 
 Web Search 
 Web Server 
 Web Services 
 Web 2.0 

 Extension Key 
 Pure Picks 
 Software Index 

 dWeather 1.5 

A cocoa java utility to look up the local forecast from weather.com
using your 5 digit zip code. This will give you both the current weather
conditions as well as a weekly forecast. I wrote this software because I
didn't want a docklet or a toolbar application that is running all the
time. I find this is a waste of resources and is also often buggy.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : David Giffin
 Modification Date : March 22, 2004
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 420 Kb

 Home Page 

 Earth Browser 2.11.0 

EarthBrowser is a three dimensional model of the earth with constantly
updating live information. Exploring the earth is fun and easy with a
point and click interface that lets you rotate and zoom to any desired
location. EarthBrowser's dynamic nature makes it an information resource
that is always useful and fascinating.
Major Features
 - Weather forecasts for over 17,000 locations
 - High resolution 1km/pixel satellite map of the Earth
 - Live hurricane and tropical storm tracking
 - Satellite cloud animations are updated every 3 hours
 - Live earthquake locations and magnitudes with links
 - Live ocean buoy data for over 250 buoys
 - Antarctic iceberg tracking
 - Daily fire hotspot display
 - Hundreds of dynamic webcams all over the globe
 - Add and save your own webcams
 - Political borders/Tectonic plate boundaries
 - Over 15,000 volcanoes with links to more information
 - Screen Saver
 - Current time of day in cities worldwide
 - Links to facts about countries all over the world
 Customizable
 EarthBrowser enables you to set which cities display weather and even
add your own cities to automatically get the closest weather report.
View hundreds of live webcams across the globe and add your own webcam
or vacation picture links right on the globe.

 License : Shareware, $24
 Author/Publisher : Lunar Software
 Modification Date : December 20, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher, 400MHz or faster

 Download 
File Size: 9.7 MB

 Home Page 

 Global Warmth 2.1 

Automatically receive the latest weather and forecast from your favorite
weather stations from around the US and the planet - and display the
info just the way you want, including as a menu extra, as a floating
command center with hot tips, the classic thermometer view, on the dock
icon, and in the multiple station viewer.

 License : Shareware, $19
 Author/Publisher : Stone Design Corp.
 Modification Date : July 15, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.2 MB

 Home Page 

 Home Weather Center 1.8 

Home Weather Center (HWC) is a weather graphing, monitoring and analysis
application for Mac OS X. HWC is designed as a virtual weather station
using Internet based weather sources rather than the more traditional
and costly hardware based sensors.

As data is gathered and stored in its database HWC allows you to view
weather statistics such as the lowest temperature, or the highest wind
speed over any time period stored in the database. In addition HWC
contains a journal for weather notes and can generate web pages
containing current conditions, graphs, statistics and a web-cam image.
HWC can upload these web pages to your server for display via a web
browser anywhere in the world.

HWC also monitors the weather and can run a set of pre-defined and user
programmed alerts that can trigger emails, send SMS messages to your
mobile phone and/or run scripts should an alert trigger. Via its ability
to run scripts when alerts are triggered, HWC is compatible with devices
such as the eyeSignal.

 License : Shareware, $35
 Author/Publisher : Lightsoft Software
 Modification Date : November 11, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 7.6 MB

 Home Page 

 MegaTrack 1.4.1 

Hurricane tracker.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Bob Rudis
 Modification Date : August 30, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X

 Download 
File Size: 8.1 MB

 Home Page 

 Meteorologist 1.4.7 

Meteorologist is a free weather program for OS X. It allows users total
control over their weather viewing, including simultaneous interlaced
weather reports from multiple weather servers, multiple weather
locations, weather alerts and much more.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Meteorologist Group
 Modification Date : September 3, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 2.2 MB

 Home Page 

 PyWeather 1.5 

A cocoa application to look up the local forecast from weather.com using
your 5 digit zip code. This will give you both the current weather
conditions as well as a weekly forecast. I wrote this software because I
didn't want a docklet or a toolbar application that is running all the
time. I find this is a waste of resources and is also often buggy. Coded
using Cocoa PyObjC and open standards.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : David Giffin
 Modification Date : April 8, 2004
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 524 Kb

 Home Page 

 Seasonality 1.5 

Seasonality takes weather monitoring to a whole new level with weather
forecasts, radar images, sunrise/sunset times, and much more. View
informative icons demonstrating what weather is coming your way over the
next 7 days. Use radar images to check out where it is raining or
snowing. Compare this month's weather conditions to last month's, or
even last year's. Keep track of just your hometown or multiple cities
across the U.S.

 License : Shareware, $25
 Author/Publisher : Gaucho Software
 Modification Date : November 15, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 16.7 MB

 Home Page 

 Son of Weather Grok 4.2.2 

Son of Weather Grok is an application that displays current weather
conditions and forecasts for cities from around the world. It taps into
NOAA's (National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration) data center
using 4 letter ICAO codes for Airports. Son of Grok will show the
temperature, sky conditions, humidity, wind speed, pressure, ceiling,
visibility, and much more.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Bains Software
 Modification Date : June 27, 2004
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.1 or higher and Mac OS 8 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 2.2 MB

 Home Page 

 WeatherDock 2.4.5 

WeatherDock displays weather information based on xml-feeds supplied by
weather.com. It displays textual weather information as well as
icon-based. It actively updates the Dock icon based on the current
conditions. Next to the current conditions it contains 5 day forecasts.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Alwin Troost
 Modification Date : January 9, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 4.3 MB

 Home Page 

 WeatherHawk-X 1.0 

WeatherHawk is a system composed of weather monitoring meteorological
instruments with data loggers to store measurements. Discover how the
WeatherHawk wireless personal weather station combines high reliability
sensors, powerful spread spectrum radios, and display software options
to create a family of easy-to-use weather stations.

WeatherHawk-X was written for the Mac OS X operating system V.10.2.8 or
later, for use solely with the WeatherHawk family of personal weather
stations.

The Demo software download below is designed to show the display
features of the application using an embedded data file. In some cases a
feature may not demonstrate using this software because the feature
requires a dynamic data input. This demonstration software will not
operate with a functional weather station.

WeatherHawk OS X software updates are at no charge to system owners for the life of the product.

 License : Demo, $1823 and up for a complete WeatherHawk Station
 Author/Publisher : WeatherHawk/programmed by AfterTen Software
 Modification Date : July 15, 2004
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2.8 or higher, Keyspan Serial-to-USB Adapter, WeahterHawk Station

 Download 
File Size: 1.6 MB

 Home Page 

 WeatherLink 5.0.3 

WeatherLink for Mac OSX, for Vantage Pro2 and Original Vantage Pro

For the ultimate in weather monitoring, add WeatherLink to your Vantage
Pro or Pro2. The data logger fits neatly into the weather station
console or Weather Envoy, storing weather data even when it's not
connected to your PC. Later, download the data and use the software to
create graphs, generate summaries, and more.
 See current conditions at a glance on the instant weather bulletin.
Graph data on a daily, weekly, or yearly basis. Or view multiple weather
variables at the same time to see their relationships.
 Create Weather Watcher Reports in NOAA National Climatic Data Center
Format.
 Create your own weather website or post weather conditions to a LAN
using our included HTML templates. Upload other files (such as images
from a webcam) along with your weather data.

 License : $165 plus a compatible Davis Weather Station
 Author/Publisher : Davis
 Modification Date : September 28, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.1 or higher, Keyspan Serial-to-USB Adapter - Compatible Davis Weather Station

 Download 
File Size: 5.5 MB

 Download page 

 WeatherLink for Perception, Wizard, or Monitor, for Mac OS X 

 WeatherLink for Mac OSX, for Vantage Pro2 and Original Vantage Pro 

 WeatherManX 1.9.8 

WeatherMan and WeatherManX: download current weather conditions, current
weather forecast and Nexrad radar images from the National Weather
Service to your Macintosh.

 License : Shareware, $10
 Author/Publisher : AfterTen Software
 Modification Date : July 17, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher and Mac OS 8 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 13.1 Kb

 Download 
File Size: 1.9 MB

 Home Page 

 WeatherMenu 3.7.5 

Automatically puts multiple icons in the menu bar.
 Downloads and displays current weather info for multiple cities worldwide.
 Can put MULTIPLE icons in the menubar for multiple cities.
 Full Forecast information
 Inform you of current weather alerts
 National Weather Service Radar
 Full Solor and Lunar information
 Color Icons
 Proxy support

 License : Shareware, $5
 Author/Publisher : AfterTen Software
 Modification Date : December 2, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 2.6 MB

 Home Page 

 WeatherPop 2.6.1 

Are you bleary eyed from staring into bright white phosphor all day?
Download WeatherPop Advance for Mac OS X only and you can be in touch
with what it's like outside right now. Let the current conditions and
temperature in your menu bar serve as a gentle reminder to get outside,
go for a walk, and stop working so hard.

The freeware version of WeatherPop only supports cities in the United
States, covered by the National Weather Service. Also supports up to 3
favorite cities!

 License : Freeware, Advance version Shareware, $8
 Author/Publisher : Glucose Development Corporation
 Modification Date : March 27, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.1 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 3.5 MB - WeatherPop Advance

 Download 
File Size: 3.5 MB - WeatherPop

 Home Page 

 WeatherTracker 2.3.2 

Originally MacWeather.
WeatherTracker is a shareware application that provides an easy-to-use interface to
the Internet weather servers at The Weather Underground. Hourly weather conditions,
local forecasts, and climatic data are available for nearly 1500 cities in North
America. Daily observations are also available for many cities worldwide.

 License : Shareware, $20
 Author/Publisher : Chris Kidwel/Purchased and Killed by Aladdin
 Modification Date : February 20, 1999
 Requirements : 68020 or better and PPC

 Download 
File Size: 970 Kb - version 2.3.2 - Last version by Chris Kidwel - Still stable and functional

 wview 3.2.1 

wview is a collection of linux/unix daemons which interface with a
supported weather station to retrieve archive records (if generated by
the station) and current conditions. The stations currently supported
are:
 * Davis Vantage Pro/Pro2
 * Vaisala WXT-510
 * Station Simulator

If the station does not generate archive records internally, wview will
auto-generate archive records based on the sensor readings collected for
that interval. The archive records are stored in the Davis WLK file
format (thus Weatherlink-generated archive files can often be used by
wview). At a configurable interval, wview will utilize the archive
history and current conditions to generate weather images (buckets,
dials and graphs) and HTML web pages based on user-configurable HTML
templates.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Mark Teel
 Modification Date : March 16, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X

 Download 
File Size: 756 Kb

 Home Page 

 Wx 5.16 

Wx is a specialized internet weather app for Mac OS X that downloads and
processes weather information and forecasts for the United States. The
software links to free XML data on the internet from the US National
Weather Service, and presents it in an attractive user-friendly
interface. Wx can be configured to track weather conditions,
watches/warnings/advisories, live radar, and forecast information for up
to 20 locations, and it can download up to 20 weather maps or images.
Optional add-ons allow each user to customize Wx for their lifestyle,
hobbies, and activities. Wx downloads data on-demand, and can be
configured to download data automatically on a periodic basis. Current
weather conditions are summarized in the app's dock icon and dock menu,
a floating "MiniWx" panel, and a Quartz screensaver. Wx can also export
settings for an iPhone, allowing it to use the iPhoneWx web app.

New in Wx 5 is "iPhoneWx", a web app that displays Wx locations and maps
on your iPhone. Here's how it works -- set up weather locations and maps
in Wx. Then, choose "iPhoneWx Export" from the Wx menu and export an
iPhoneWx bookmark to Safari. Hook your iPhone up to your computer, sync
your bookmarks, and that's it! Just tap the iPhoneWx bookmark in Safari
on your iPhone, and have access to your own custom weather center
anywhere you go (wi-fi or EDGE access required).

 License : Shareware, $17
 Author/Publisher : Craig A. Hunter
 Modification Date : November 22, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 2.8 MB

 iPhoneWx 

 Home Page 

 Denotes Mac OS X Intel Native 
 Denotes Mac OS X Intel & PPC Native 
 Denotes Mac OS X PPC Native 
 Denotes Mac OS 8/9 PPC Native 
 Denotes Mac OS 680x0 Native 
 Denotes Non-OS Specific Code 

 Back to the Main Page of Pure Mac