Pure Mac: Web Editors - Software for Macintosh 

 Web Editors 

 Web 

 Pure-Mac.com 

 Also, check the Web Graphics and Graphics pages. 
The Site Management page contains Find & Replace Tools, Link Checkers, Log Analyzers, Optimizers and Validators. 

 Blogs 
 CSS 
 Intermediate 
 PHP/SQL 
 Template 
 Text Editors 
 WYSIWYG 
 XML/XHTML Editors 

 BlogAssist 
 Blog.Mac 
 ecto 
 iBlog 
 MarsEdit 
 Xjournal 

 Cascade Light 
 CSSEdit 
 Flux 
 Style Master 
 Xylescope 

 Coda 
 Contribute 
 Daktari 
 GoodPage 
 HTML Creator 
 Mozilla 
 PageSpinner 
 Taco HTML Edit 
 Tumult HyperEdit 
 WebDesign 

 Aqua Data Studio 
 CocoaMySQL 
 Forms To Go 
 Navicat MySQL 
 Navicat PostgreSQL 
 phpMyAdmin 
 PHP Studio 
 SQLEditor 
 SQL4X Manager 
 SQLGrinder 
 YourSQL 
 Zend Studio 

 Goldfish 
 iWeb 
 RapidWeaver 
 Sandvox 

 BBEdit 
 skEdit 
 Smultron 
 SubEthaEdit 
 TextMate 
 TextWrangler 

 Create 
 Dreamweaver 
 Freeway 
 GoLive 
 KompoZer 
 Mozilla 
 Nvu 

 EditiX 
 Flux 
 oXygen XML Editor 
 SEEdit 
 XML Editor 
 XML-RPC Client 

 Pure Mac 
 Education 
 Accessibility 
 Astronomy 
 Calculators & Math 
 Collections 
 Health 
 Hobbies & Crafts 
 Kid Stuff 
 Language 
 Parental Control 
 Recipes 
 Science 
 Teaching Aids 
 Typing 

 Games 
 Action 
 Arcade 
 Board 
 Card 
 Emulators 
 Flight Sims 
 Frivolous 
 Game Utilities 
 MMOG 
 Puzzle 
 RPG 
 Sports & Racing 
 Strategy 
 Word 

 Internet 
 Collaboration 
 Distributed Computing 
 Download Managers 
 Email 
 FTP 
 Internet Utilities 
 iPhone 
 IRC & IM 
 Online Games 
 Peer-to-Peer 
 Remote Access 
 Usenet 
 Video Conferencing 
 VoIP 

 Multimedia 
 Audio 
 CAD 
 Charts 
 DTP 
 Ebook 
 Font Utilities 
 Graphics 
 iTunes & MP3 
 Media Center 
 Music 
 Photoshop Plug-ins 
 Presentation 
 3D & Animation 
 Screen Capture 
 Video 

 System 
 Alternative OS 
 Classic Updates 
 Command Line 
 Contextual Menus 
 CSMs 
 Drivers 
 Face-Lift 
 Launchers 
 Olden 
 Screen Savers 
 Security 
 System Enhancements 
 Virus 
 Widgets 
 X11 

 Utilities 
 Backup 
 Compression 
 Cross-Platform 
 Database 
 Diagnostics 
 Disk & File 
 Finance 
 Handhelds 
 Network 
 PIMs 
 Programming 
 Spreadsheets 
 Telephony 
 Text Editors 
 Time 

 WWW 
 Auctions 
 Browsers 
 Browser Enhancements 
 Page Rippers 
 RSS & Podcasting 
 Site Management 
 Stock Tickers 
 Weather 
 Web Cams 
 Web Editors 
 Web Graphics 
 Web Search 
 Web Server 
 Web Services 
 Web 2.0 

 Extension Key 
 Pure Picks 
 Software Index 

 Aqua Data Studio 6.5.7 

Aqua Data Studio is a database query tool and administration tool that
allows developers to easily create, edit, and execute SQL scripts, as
well as browse and visually modify database structures. Aqua Data Studio
provides an integrated database environment with a single consistent
interface to all major relational databases. This allows the database
administrator or developer to tackle multiple tasks simultaneously from
one application.

 License : Demo, $399
 Author/Publisher : John Haxor
 Modification Date : November 24, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 32.5 MB

 Home Page 

 BBEdit 8.7.2 

BBEdit is a high-performance text and HTML editor for the Macintosh. 
BBEdit is designed for the editing, searching, transformation,
and manipulation of text. It provides an array of
general-purpose features which are useful for many tasks, and
includes many features which have been specifically developed
in response to the needs of HTML authors and software
developers.

 License : Demo, $125
 Author/Publisher : Bare Bones Software
 Modification Date : December 17, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 15.4 MB - Demo 8.7.2

 Download 
File Size: 15.3 MB - 8.7.2 Updater

 Home Page 

 BlogAssist 2.1.2 

BlogAssist is a handy tool to help weblog and website editing by making HTML markup easier.
 There are three easy ways to use it: you can use whichever one you prefer, or all three as desired.
 1. The System Menu: BlogAssist adds a small menu to the right-hand side of the
menubar in all applications. You can simply select and copy some text into the clipboard,
choose a suitable operation from the menu, then paste the result in the desired location.
The text will have been transformed like magic.
 2. The Services Menu: BlogAssist also appears in the Services menu, available in
most applications.
 3. The Floating Window: This is similar to the Services menu panel, but can be left
open as long as you like. It floats above all other windows, always available. It can be
hidden and shown via the BlogAssist system menu. With the floating window displayed, you
simply drag text to one or both of its Value fields, choose an operation from the included
pop-up menu, then drag the formatted HTML from the Result field. Like the Services panel,
this window includes a convenient preview of how the HTML will be rendered in a web page.

 License : Shareware, $10
 Author/Publisher : Dejal
 Modification Date : December 3, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 2.0 MB

 Home Page 

 Blog.Mac 1.2.2 

Blog.Mac is the easy to use Blogging solution built just for Apple's
.Mac service. Unlike other blogging solutions built for the Mac or for
the web, Blog.Mac was made to get your blog on the web quickly and
easily while staying out of your way with complex interfaces or
extraneous options.

Blog.Mac combines the standard blogging technologies with the
innovations standard on the Mac OS X platform. Using Blog.Mac, you'll be
able to show what's playing on your iTunes (with automatic live
updates), use your iSight as a live WebCam, publish your Blog posts as
an RSS feed, and archive your Blog in one, easy step.

 License : Shareware, $30 
 Author/Publisher : Largemouth Software, LLC
 Modification Date : April 3, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 6.4 MB

 Home Page 

 Cascade Light 3.0 

Cascade makes it easy to design the presentation style of your 
website. It is a comprehensive Cascading Style Sheets editor that gives 
you full control of CSS presentation style without requiring detailed 
knowledge of the technical specifications.
browser.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Terje Norderhaug/Media Design in Progress 
 Modification Date : August 4, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2.8 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 3.2 MB - version 3.0

 Download 
File Size: 2.9 MB - version 2.0

 Download 
File Size: 1.3 MB - version 1.0

 Home Page 

 CocoaMySQL 0.7b5 

CocoaMySQL is an application used to manage MySQL databases (locally or over the
internet). It lets you add and remove databases and tables, change fields and indexes,
view and filter the content of tables, add, edit and remove rows, perform custom queries
and dump tables or entire databases.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Lorenz Textor
 Modification Date : November 1, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.4 MB

 Home Page 

 Coda 1.1 

So, we code web sites by hand. And one day, it hit us: our web workflow
was wonky. We'd have our text editor open, with Transmit open to save
files to the server. We'd be previewing in Safari, running queries in
Terminal, using a CSS editor, and reading references on the web. "This
could be easier," we realized. "And much cooler."

 License : Shareware, $79
 Author/Publisher : Panic
 Modification Date : November 30, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 18.2 MB

 Home Page 

 Contribute CS3 

Adobe Contribute CS3 software enables anyone to quickly and easily
update existing websites and blogs while maintaining the look and feel
imposed by Adobe Dreamweaver templates. With Contribute CS3, content
authors can post and publish content to multiple websites and blogs from
a single application or publish directly from within Microsoft Office
applications with the click of a button.

 License : Demo, $149
 Author/Publisher : Adobe
 Modification Date : April 16, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4.8 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 387 MB - CS3 Demo

 Home Page 

 Create 14.1 

Create is a professional page layout, illustration and web page
authoring application with many advanced features, and a surprisingly
simple interface.

 License : Demo, $150
 Author/Publisher : Stone Design
 Modification Date : November 27, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 19.8 MB

 Home Page 

 CSSEdit 2.6 

CSSEdit features full-blown source editing for the advanced user. With
one click you transform the easy to use visual editors into a mighty
source code environment.

Besides standard coding features such as syntax coloring, find and
replace, go to line and auto-indentation, CSSEdit offers intelligent
auto-complete. It will never suggest double properties, is fully context
sensitive, and remembers the items you use most. What does this mean in
practice? That the time you spend typing properties and their values
will be drastically reduced!

 License : Shareware, $30
 Author/Publisher : MacRabbit
 Modification Date : October 24, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 2.2 MB

 Home Page 

 Daktari 1.1 

Daktari brings a familiar metaphor to managing web site projects with
unique features for editing web pages. As web site projects are added to
Daktari's Library, all of the web pages and image files are listed in a
Library List view. Double-clicking a web page in the Library List view
opens the page into Daktari's Head and Body views for editing. While
editing, the page may be saved and previewed by clicking Daktari's View
icon.

In addition to organizing and quick access to the pages and images of
web site projects, Daktari provides unique features for writing web
pages, including Unicode support. Daktari is designed to allow copy to
be pasted or entered into a new web page and subsequently select
portions of the text for markup, choosing markup commands from Daktari's
menus. Drop-down panels simplify creating CSS style definitions, images,
and scripts. Daktari colors the web page code to make reading and
recognizing the page's parts easier.

 License : Shareware, $25
 Author/Publisher : IdleWild
 Modification Date : November 17, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 5.8 MB

 Home Page 

 Dreamweaver CS3 

Design, develop, and maintain standards-based websites and applications
 - from start to finish - with Adobe Dreamweaver CS3 software. Work the
way you work best using either a visual layout interface or a
streamlined coding environment. Enjoy a faster workflow and intelligent
integration with other Adobe software, including Photoshop CS3,
Fireworks CS3, Flash CS3 Professional, and Contribute CS3.

 License : Demo, $399
 Author/Publisher : Adobe
 Modification Date : April 16, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4.8 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 596 MB - CS3 Demo

 Home Page 

 ecto 2.4.2 

ecto is a feature-rich desktop blogging client for MacOSX and Windows,
supporting a wide range of weblog systems, such as Blogger, Blojsom,
Drupal, MovableType, Nucleus, TypePad, WordPress, and more.

 License : Shareware, $18
 Author/Publisher : Kula Co, Ltd.
 Modification Date : January 11, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 4.2 MB

 Home Page 

 EditiX 5.2.2 

A cross-platform powerful and easy to use XML editor.

 License : Shareware, $85
 Author/Publisher : JAPISoft
 Modification Date : April 10, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 15.0 MB

 Home Page 

 Flux 1.0.15 

Flux is an app for the Mac for designing XHTML/CSS websites.
You can do Web 2.0, AJAX, and most other buzzword-compliant things.

 License : Shareware, $49
 Author/Publisher : The Escapers
 Modification Date : October 1, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 15.8 MB

 Home Page 

 Forms To Go 3.2.5 

Create scripts in PHP, ASP or Perl. Add professional scripts in your web
site to process HTML forms and send the field values thru email without
a knowledge of programming. Scripts can be in PHP, ASP or Perl language.
Forms To Go is a very simple and powerful application that creates
scripts in PHP, ASP and Perl to process your HTML forms and send all the
form's field values thru email or save them in a text file on your
server.

 License : Shareware, $25
 Author/Publisher : Bebosoft, Inc.
 Modification Date : September 10, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 13.7 MB

 Home Page 

 Freeway 4.4.2 

Freeway Pro and Freeway Express are unique in the world of Web design
applications. Unlike so-called WYSIWYG applications (which are often
little more than warmed over word-processors) or hard-core programmers'
text editors, they free you to build Web sites in a purely visual design
mode. That's because they are code generators, not editors.

 License : Demo, Pro $250, Express $99
 Author/Publisher : SoftPress
 Modification Date : December 20, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2.8 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 91.0 MB - Demo

 Updates Page 

 Home Page 

 Goldfish 2.1.1 

This fish is small but smart: Goldfish can create your individual
websites in a few simple steps. With it's special, easy to use
interface, you can place items on your page using drag and drop: no code
required. Even a beginner can create a professsional website with
Goldfish.

For instantaneous page creation, Goldfish contains many stylish templates.

 License : Shareware, $35
 Author/Publisher : Fishbeam Software
 Modification Date : November 25, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.1 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 10.9 MB

 Home Page 

 GoLive 9.0 

Professional, standards-based Web and mobile authoring

Adobe GoLive 9 software allows both web professionals and graphic
designers to visually create sophisticated, CSS-based content. Design
graphics in other Adobe applications and bring them to the web with
ease, using familiar tools and concepts. Then, publish your site to the
web with easy-to-use site management tools similar to those found in
Adobe Bridge.

 License : Demo, $399 
 Author/Publisher : Adobe
 Modification Date : June 8, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4.8 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 323 MB - Demo

 Home Page 

 GoodPage 1.3.1 

HTML/CSS editing and site management made easy.

 License : Demo, $99
 Author/Publisher : Tari
 Modification Date : October 31, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.6 MB

 Home Page 

 HTML Creator 3.5.1 

HTML Creator is an award winning shareware HTML editor for Mac OS 8.6
and above created with the intermediate user in mind (although beginners
and advanced users are welcome too)! HTML Creator features 'assistants'
that write the HTML code for you and allow you at all times to be in
control. Leave any field blank and that attribute won't be added - not
like other similar programs. HTML Creator also features more advanced
tools such as JavaScripts, CSS, Frameset tools, and Server Side Includes
as well productivity enhancements such as an easy to use HTML Reference,
ScratchPad, Shortcuts, the ability to open and save files from FTP
servers, and more.

 License : Shareware, $15
 Author/Publisher : Aram Kudurshian
 Modification Date : March 13, 2003
 Requirements : Mac OS X and Mac OS 8.6 and higher

 Download 
File Size: 3.6 MB

 Home Page 

 iBlog 2.0rc2 

iBlog is an elegant desktop weblogging application that makes authoring
and publishing your personal weblogs (a.k.a blogs) a breeze. Unlike
other weblogging systems, You don't have to be an expert database
administrator or a perl programmer to setup and use iBlog. With a single
click on the publish button you can publish your blogs to your iDisk.
Optionally you can copy the entire folder of locally published pages to
your own web server.

 License : Shareware, $20
 Author/Publisher : Lifli Software
 Modification Date : April 18, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 8.2 MB

 Home Page 

 iWeb 2.0.2 

Let iWeb help you build a beautiful website in minutes using
Apple-designed templates. Just choose a website theme that fits your
style. Each theme offers page templates for "About Me," photo album,
blog, podcast, and movie pages, so you'll always have the perfect place
for your content. Use the iLife Media Browser to drag in your photos,
movies, and podcasts, then simply type over the placeholder text on your
page template, and click once to publish to .Mac.

 License : Updater, Purchase with iLife for $79
 Author/Publisher : Apple
 Modification Date : September 27, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4.9 or higher, iLife Support 8.1

 Download 
File Size: 17.0 MB - iWeb 2.0.2 updater (for iLife '08)

 Download 
File Size: 7 MB - iLife Support 8.1

 Download 
File Size: 22.7 MB - iWeb 1.1.2 updater - September 28, 2006

 Home Page 

 KompoZer 0.7.10 

KompoZer is a complete web authoring system that combines web file
management and easy-to-use WYSIWYG web page editing.

KompoZer is designed to be extremely easy to use, making it ideal for
non-technical computer users who want to create an attractive,
professional-looking web site without needing to know HTML or web
coding.

KompoZer is based on Gecko, the layout engine inside Mozilla; it's a
super-fast, very reliable, standards conformant engine maintained on a
daily basis by a wide community of developers. Its remarkable support of
XML, CSS and JavaScript offers the best authoring platform on the
market. Its architecture based on XUL makes it the most extensible
editing tool ever.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : KompoZer Project
 Modification Date : September 5, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 84 MB

 Home Page 

 MarsEdit 2.0.5 

MarsEdit is a weblog editor for Mac OS X that makes weblog writing like
writing email - with spell-checking, drafts, multiple windows, and even
AppleScript support.

It works with various weblog systems: Blosxom, Conversant, Manila,
Movable Type, Radio UserLand, TypePad, WordPress, and others.

 License : Shareware, $25
 Author/Publisher : Red Sweater Software
 Modification Date : December 31, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 3.3 MB

 Home Page 

 Mozilla 1.7.13 

The Mozilla project maintains choice and innovation on the Internet by
developing the acclaimed, open source, Mozilla web and email suite and
related products and technology.
 For web browsing, email, HTML editing, IRC chat, and more

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : The Mozilla Organization
 Modification Date : April 15, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X

 Download 
File Size: 13.5 MB

 Download 
File Size: 15.2 MB - version 1.2.1

 Home Page 

 Navicat MySQL 7.0.11 

Navicat is a powerful MySQL database administration and development tool
that is not only sophisticated enough for professional developers, but
also easy to learn for new users. With an user-friendly GUI, Navicat
lets you quickly and easily create, organize, access and share
information in a secure and convenient way. Navicat supports multiple
MySQL server connections which can be connected locally or remotely.
Your remote MySQL server can be running on Linux, Unix, Mac OS X or
Windows platform.

 License : Demo, $99
 Author/Publisher : Premiumsoft CyberTech Ltd
 Modification Date : December 9, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 9.1 MB

 Home Page 

 Navicat PostgreSQL 7.0.4 

Navicat is a powerful PostgreSQL database administration and
development tool that is not only sophisticated enough for professional
developers, but also easy to learn for new users. With an user-friendly
GUI, Navicat lets you quickly and easily create, organize, access and
share information in a secure and convenient way.

Navicat supports multiple PostgreSQL server connections which can be
connected locally or remotely. Your remote PostgreSQL server can be
running on Linux, Unix, Mac OS X or Windows platform.

 License : Demo, $99
 Author/Publisher : Premiumsoft CyberTech Ltd
 Modification Date : November 13, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.1 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 9.6 MB

 Home Page 

 Nvu 1.0 

Finally! A complete Web Authoring System for Linux Desktop users as
well as Microsoft Windows and Macintosh users to rival programs like
FrontPage and Dreamweaver. Nvu (pronounced N-view, for a "new view")
makes managing a web site a snap. Now anyone can create web pages and
manage a website with no technical expertise or knowledge of HTML

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Nvu
 Modification Date : June 28, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.1.5 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 11.7 MB

 Home Page 

 oXygen XML Editor 9.1 

The simple and elegant look of the oXygen combined with the complete
coverage of the XML editing features have made it popular in both the
corporate and academic worlds. It provides the necessary tools for the
document creation and presentation.

The documents can be created and validated against any user defined
schema. The smart context sensitive editing saves time and guarantees a
minimum number of validation errors. The documents can be published in a
wide range of formats including HTML, PDF, PostScript using the built-in
or external processors. Developers can use oXygen for authoring
document schemas and for editing and debugging the XSL stylesheets
needed for the presentation layer. The integration with the document
repositories is made through the WebDAV and FTP protocols.

 License : Demo, $148
 Author/Publisher : SyncRO Soft
 Modification Date : December 17, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 42.8 MB

 Home Page 

 PageSpinner 5.0 

PageSpinner is the easy-to-use, professional HTML editor for Mac OS
supporting HTML 3.2, HTML 4, XHTML, PHP, SSI plus additional Netscape
Navigator and Internet Explorer extensions and a built-in JavaScript
generator.

The editor gives you quick access to often used formatting and also
supports online help to help you compose your own Web pages.

PageSpinner features built-in FTP support, customizable syntax
color-coding of JavaScript, PHP, Cascading Style Sheets, support for
Server Side Includes, integration with Apache and the Terminal in OS X,
and more!

 License : Shareware, $30
 Author/Publisher : Optima System
 Modification Date : May 1, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 5.8 MB

 Home Page 

 phpMyAdmin 2.11.4 

phpMyAdmin is a tool written in PHP intended to handle the
administration of MySQL over the Web. Currently it can create and drop
databases, create/drop/alter tables, delete/edit/add fields, execute any
SQL statement, manage keys on fields, manage privileges,export data into
various formats and is available in 50 languages.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : phpMyAdmin Team
 Modification Date : January 12, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X

 Download 
File Size: 4.1 MB

 Home Page 

 PHP Studio 1.1 

PHP Studio is a complete, elegant, and hugely usable PHP code editor. We
designed it from the ground up with the user in mind. Featuring some of
the most powerful code editing available for Mac, from extensible syntax
coloring to integrated auto complete, PHP Studio isn't an extension to
your PHP development workforce; it is your workforce. All of the things
you need when writing PHP are instantly available, with the ability to
execute and test your code with a single click.

 License : Shareware, $25
 Author/Publisher : Neometric Software
 Modification Date : July 7, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 2.2 MB

 Home Page 

 RapidWeaver 3.6.5 

RapidWeaver is a next-generation web design application to help you
easily create professional looking web sites in minutes. No knowledge of
complex code is required, RapidWeaver will take care of all that for
you.

RapidWeaver comes with a host of page styles specially designed for you
to share your thoughts, photos, movies, files and much more. Standard
page styles include Blog, Contact Form, File Sharing, HTML, Movie Album,
Photo Album, Styled Page (WYSIWYG), Quicktime and more.

 License : Shareware, $35
 Author/Publisher : Realmac Software
 Modification Date : November 19, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 23.2 MB

 Home Page 

 Sandvox 1.2.6 

Sandvox makes website creation elegant, intuitive and fun. It's the
Macintosh way - the way it should be: drag and drop content, watch your
site take shape as you create it, and publish. Sandvox makes it easy to
keep in touch via the Web with friends, family and customers.

 License : Demo, $39 - Pro $69
 Author/Publisher : Karelia
 Modification Date : January 7, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 25.8 MB

 Home Page 

 SEEdit 2008 r1 

SEEdit XHTML/HTML Editor. With SEEdit's fast and powerful Editor Toolbox
insertion of code and classes is always just one click away. SEEdit's
handy advanced Tag Editor also handles CSS classes and Javascript
functions. Other powerful features to assist professionals and hobbyists
worldwide include Tidy Checker for standards-compliant code, the Quick
CSS Tool for rapid CSS development, extensive Multi-language support and
Auto Complete.

 License : Shareware, $30
 Author/Publisher : Sven E Olsson
 Modification Date : January 5, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 10.3 MB

 Home Page 

 skEdit 4.0 

skEdit features customizable syntax highlighting for HTML, ColdFusion,
CSS, PHP, JavaScript, ASP, Perl, and Python. You can change colors, add
new keywords, etc. Keywords can be defined using regular expressions, or
just as plain-text keywords.

As you type HTML, ColdFusion, MovableType tags, or CSS, skEdit will
present possible completions in a menu. Pressing return inserts the
completion.

skEdit's integrated SFTP (Secure File Transfer Protocol) support allows
you to both transfer and edit files on a remote server that supports
SFTP.
 And many more features.

 License : Shareware, $25
 Author/Publisher : Sean Kelly
 Modification Date : December 15, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 7.8 MB

 Home Page 

 Smultron 3.3 

Smultron is an open-source text editor written in Cocoa for Mac OS X
Panther with many of the features that you might need. It features easy
selection of the opened documents, line numbers, support for syntax
colouring for many different languages, support for text encodings, code
snippets, a toolbar, a status bar, HTML preview, multi-document find and
replace with regular expressions, possibility to show invisible
characters, authenticated saves, command-line utility, .Mac
synchronisation of preferences and many more features.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Peter Borg
 Modification Date : November 27, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 4.6 MB

 Home Page 

 SQLEditor 1.3.9 

SQLEditor is a tool that allows you to create basic SQL databases
graphically. You can create the tables and fields using a drag and drop
approach, then edit and export the database as an SQL file.

 License : Shareware, $69
 Author/Publisher : MalcolmHardie Solutions
 Modification Date : April 23, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2.8 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 2.8 MB

 Home Page 

 SQL4X Manager 3.5 

SQL4X Manager J is a unique tool to access and manage your database
server with Mac OS X. SQL4X Manager J automatically recognizes your
database server and helps you to do your work with more than 80
assistants and tools - from table and user management to SQL queries
with syntax coloring, data transfer and reporting.

 License : Demo, $59
 Author/Publisher : InterServices New Media
 Modification Date : May 11, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 4.4 MB

 Home Page 

 SQLGrinder 2.0.5 

Advenio SQLGrinder is a native Mac OS X SQL editor and developer tool
that gives you the tools to make your database development easier. Using
SQLGrinder you can create, edit and execute SQL queries. You can browse
your database schema. With SQLGrinder, you can easily connect to any
database that has a JDBC driver. Because SQLGrinder is built using
Apple's Cocoa framework, SQLGrinder looks and feels like a Macintosh OS
X application should, not like an application made on another platform
and ported to OS X.

 License : Shareware, $50
 Author/Publisher : Advenio LLC
 Modification Date : April 17, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 6.0 MB

 Home Page 

 Style Master 4.6 

Style Master - is a user friendly cascading style sheet editor, suitable for the
developer new to style sheets as well as the style sheet master. Its a must for anyone
who wants to work with style sheets. Style Master lets you create and edit fully
compliant css1 and cssp style sheets with point and click ease work around browser
limitations by targetting specific browsers and sets of browsers preview style sheets
using any HTML file in any or every web browser easily integrate your style sheets
with your web sites. Style Master includes a comprehensive HTML manual, as well as
an extensive tutorial on cascading style sheets.

 License : Shareware, $60
 Author/Publisher : Western Civilization
 Modification Date : November 7, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 14.3 MB

 Home Page 

 SubEthaEdit 3.0.2 

SubEthaEdit is a powerful and lean text editor. And it's the only
collaborative one you can actually use. By combining the ease of
Bonjour with the world's best text collaboration engine, it makes
working together not only possible but even fun.

 License : Shareware, $35
 Author/Publisher : TheCodingMonkeys
 Modification Date : December 4, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 5.7 MB

 Home Page 

 Taco HTML Edit 1.7.3 

Taco HTML Edit is a full-featured HTML editor and PHP editor distributed
as freeware. As an HTML editor, Taco HTML Edit empowers its users to
rapidly create their own web sites. It is designed exclusively for Mac
OS X and has many advanced features including image mapping, spell checking, live
browser previewing, PHP previewing, syntax checking, and much more.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Taco Software
 Modification Date : July 25, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.1 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 2.0 MB

 Home Page 

 TextMate 1.5.7 

TextMate attempts to bring Apple's approach to operating systems into
the world of text editors. By bridging UNIX underpinnings and GUI,
TextMate cherry-picks the best of both worlds to the benefit of expert
scripters and novice users alike. With a wealth of exclusive features
like tabs, foldings, and macros, TextMate is well ahead of other native,
graphical editors on OS X - and you don't have to sell your bones to
afford it.

 License : Shareware, $50
 Author/Publisher : MacroMates
 Modification Date : October 26, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 9.9 MB

 Home Page 

 TextWrangler 2.3 

TextWrangler 2 is the powerful general purpose text editor, and Unix and
server administrator's tool.
 What is a text editor? At its most basic, a text editor is a tool
for simply editing text. You can use a text editor for a wide variety of
tasks from cleaning up data, to editing configuration files on your Mac
or server, to writing HTML or coding.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Bare Bones Software
 Modification Date : January 15, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 10.9 MB

 Home Page 

 Tumult HyperEdit 1.5.3 

Tumult HyperEdit is a lightweight HTML editor with a preview pane that
displays the web page live as you type. HyperEdit breaks the tedious
cycle of writing html, saving the file, then reloading and viewing the
page in the browser by combining the writing phase with the viewing
phase. This clarifies the effects of your changes and speeds up the
overall process of making a web page. W3C-based validation will
red-underline any mistakes. It uses the same rendering engine found in
Safari, so it is not only standards compliant, but also very fast.

 License : Shareware, $20
 Author/Publisher : Tumult Co.
 Modification Date : November 29, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 3.9 MB

 Home Page 

 WebDesign 2.8 

The fully featured HTML Editor and web authoring software, WebDesign
gives you full control over your web site code, design and structure
allowing you to develop fast, effective and the most compatible web
sites possible. Providing support for HTML, XHTML, Cascading Style
Sheets, PHP, Javascript, ASP, XML, VBScript and more, WebDesign comes
ready to work with all your web site documents. WebDesign includes
everything you need from writing your web page, making sure it works ok
in all web browsers and then getting it online with the FREE web hosting
included with your purchase!

 License : Shareware, $30
 Author/Publisher : Rage Software
 Modification Date : July 20, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 7.1 MB

 Home Page 

 Xjournal 1.0.5 

Xjournal is a Mac OS X client for the Livejournal.com weblog service. It
supports a number of advanced features that are not available in any
other client.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Fraser Speirs
 Modification Date : May 16, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.7 MB

 Home Page 

 XML Editor 2.39 

XML Editor is a clean, simple and powerful graphical XML editing and
validation tool. XML Editor has Unicode support, allowing working with
XML in any language.

 License : Shareware, $55
 Author/Publisher : ElfData
 Modification Date : November 21, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 5.3 MB

 Home Page 

 XML-RPC Client 1.6 

XML-RPC Client is a free Cocoa-based developer tool for Mac OS X Tiger
that allows you to access and debug XML-RPC web services from the
comfort of your desktop.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Todd Ditchendorf
 Modification Date : July 6, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 159 Kb

 Home Page 

 Xylescope 1.2.2 

Xylescope has been designed and developed for looking underneath the
surface of web pages as you surf the web - it couldn't be easier. Using
Xylescope you can look forward to analysing complex CSS designs with
incredible ease and experimenting with third-party sites, without having
to download them onto your own computer first.

 License : Shareware, $15
 Author/Publisher : Cultured Code
 Modification Date : October 25, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.8 MB

 Home Page 

 YourSQL 1.8.0e 

YourSQL is a simple but powerful program to create and manipulate MySQL
databases. It is intended to be easy to use for the beginner as well as
the more advanced user, and provides access to some otherwise underused,
advanced features of MySQL, such as indices, InnoDB tables,
multi-statement SQL scripts and multi-threaded handling of SQL dumps for
backups or similar administration tasks.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Ludit s.r.l.
 Modification Date : June 29, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 7.5 MB

 Home Page 

 Zend Studio 5.5 

Zend Studio is the only Integrated Development Environment (IDE)
available for professional developers that encompasses all the
development components necessary for the full PHP application lifecycle.
Through a comprehensive set of editing, debugging, analysis,
optimization and database tools, Zend Studio speeds development cycles
and simplifies complex projects.

 License : Demo, Enterprise - $499 - Professional $299 - Standard $99
 Author/Publisher : Zend Technologies Ltd.
 Modification Date : December 5, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 44.6 MB - Demo

 Download Page 

 Home Page 

 Denotes Mac OS X Intel Native 
 Denotes Mac OS X Intel & PPC Native 
 Denotes Mac OS X PPC Native 
 Denotes Mac OS 8/9 PPC Native 
 Denotes Mac OS 680x0 Native 
 Denotes Non-OS Specific Code 

 Back to the Main Page of Pure Mac