Pure Mac: Site Management - Software for Macintosh 

 Site Management 

 Web 

 Pure-Mac.com 

 Not here? Check the Web Editors , Web Graphics and Graphics pages. 

 Find & Replace 
 Link Checkers 
 Log Analyzers 
 Optimizers 
 Validators 

 iReplace 
 Poirot 
 Simple Find & Replace 

 Big Brother 
 BLT 
 Integrity 
 LinkChecker Firefox Extension 
 Link Checker 
 Piltdown 
 WebLight 

 Analog 
 Funnel Web 
 Sawmill 
 Summary 
 Traffic Report 
 Webalizer 

 HTML-Optimizer 
 Site Soap 
 WebsiteCleaner 
 Web Site Maestro 

 Balthisar Tidy 
 HTML Tidy 
 JChecker 
 MacTidy 
 Tidy Service 
 Validator S.A.C 
 XML Nanny 

 Validators 
 WDG HTML Validator 
 The W3C Markup Validation Service 
 The W3C CSS Validation Service 

 Pure Mac 
 Education 
 Accessibility 
 Astronomy 
 Calculators & Math 
 Collections 
 Health 
 Hobbies & Crafts 
 Kid Stuff 
 Language 
 Parental Control 
 Recipes 
 Science 
 Teaching Aids 
 Typing 

 Games 
 Action 
 Arcade 
 Board 
 Card 
 Emulators 
 Flight Sims 
 Frivolous 
 Game Utilities 
 MMOG 
 Puzzle 
 RPG 
 Sports & Racing 
 Strategy 
 Word 

 Internet 
 Collaboration 
 Distributed Computing 
 Download Managers 
 Email 
 FTP 
 Internet Utilities 
 iPhone 
 IRC & IM 
 Online Games 
 Peer-to-Peer 
 Remote Access 
 Usenet 
 Video Conferencing 
 VoIP 

 Multimedia 
 Audio 
 CAD 
 Charts 
 DTP 
 Ebook 
 Font Utilities 
 Graphics 
 iTunes & MP3 
 Media Center 
 Music 
 Photoshop Plug-ins 
 Presentation 
 3D & Animation 
 Screen Capture 
 Video 

 System 
 Alternative OS 
 Classic Updates 
 Command Line 
 Contextual Menus 
 CSMs 
 Drivers 
 Face-Lift 
 Launchers 
 Olden 
 Screen Savers 
 Security 
 System Enhancements 
 Virus 
 Widgets 
 X11 

 Utilities 
 Backup 
 Compression 
 Cross-Platform 
 Database 
 Diagnostics 
 Disk & File 
 Finance 
 Handhelds 
 Network 
 PIMs 
 Programming 
 Spreadsheets 
 Telephony 
 Text Editors 
 Time 

 WWW 
 Auctions 
 Browsers 
 Browser Enhancements 
 Page Rippers 
 RSS & Podcasting 
 Site Management 
 Stock Tickers 
 Weather 
 Web Cams 
 Web Editors 
 Web Graphics 
 Web Search 
 Web Server 
 Web Services 
 Web 2.0 

 Extension Key 
 Pure Picks 
 Software Index 

 Analog 6.0 

A port of Stephen Turner's log analysis program, Analog. Analog is a WWW logfile analysis program. It has the following
advantages over other similar programs.
 It's very flexible. The default output will be satisfactory for
most people, but there are over 180 options producing 17
different reports for those who want to do things differently.
 It can output in 7 different languages, and 3 output formats. 
 It produces attractive output that complies with the HTML
spec (and so can be read on any browser). 
 It understands MacHTTP, WebSTAR, Quid Pro Quo, and NetPresenz log
formats as well as the common log file format, NCSA old-style
format and the NCSA/Apache auxilary and combined log files.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Jason T. Linhart
 Modification Date : December 19, 2004
 Requirements : Mac OS X and Mac OS 8.6 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 2.6 MB

 Home Page 

 Balthisar Tidy 0.6 

For years, Dave Raggett's Unix tool HTML Tidy has been the defacto
standard for cleaning, organizing, troubleshooting, and fixing HTML
files from a wide variety of sources. Balthisar Tidy is the beautiful
Macintosh OS X implementation of this this fine tool. Will virtually all
of the features of the command line tool and all of the text encodings
that Mac OS X offers, Balthisar Tidy will be helping you post better
code in no time!

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : James S. Derry
 Modification Date : November 19, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.1 MB

 Home Page 

 Big Brother 1.3b2 

Big Brother is a hyperlink validation tool. Feed it your HTML source and sit back while it checks it. It will notify
you when a remote document is no longer available and will display its new address whenever possible. It can
also check internal links offline, which can be very useful if you maintain a large site.

 License : Shareware, $10
 Author/Publisher : Francois Pottier
 Modification Date : September 26, 1997
 Requirements : System 7.5 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 855 Kb - version 1.3b2

 Download 
File Size: 751 Kb - version 1.2

 Parent Directory 

 Home Page 

 BLT 1.0.3 

BLT (Braxton's Link Tester) is a link checking program for Mac
OS X. It can check
sites both online and offline, create HTML and CSV reports, and can even
be set up to check sites on a regular basis. BLT checks all objects on
web pages, not just images and clickable links. In addition, you get
many options to help customize your link checking experience.

 License : Shareware, $25
 Author/Publisher : Braxton Sherouse
 Modification Date : January 2, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.3 MB version 1.0.3

 Download 
File Size: 172 Kb - version 0.2

 Home Page 

 Funnel Web 5.0 

Every person who visits your company's Web site leaves a trail behind.
Your Web server logs their every action and you can use this information
to help improve your business. Funnel Web Analyzer provides essential
Web site visitor and traffic analysis. It measures everything from
server load and referrals to visitor demographics and marketing ROI.
Funnel Web Analyzer helps you optimize your web site by allowing you to
analyze how users interact with your site and helps you make informed
decisions about what changes you can make to improve their experience. 
Although you need to use the terminal, it's relatively easy to set up and it gives great reports.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Quest Software
 Modification Date : July 28, 2003
 Requirements : Mac OS X

 Download 
File Size: 6.9 MB

 Home Page 

 HTML-Optimizer 9.8.5 

HTML-Optimizer speeds up your web site by optimizing both HTML and
script code of your web pages. It helps you keep organized by creating a
duplicate site folder for the optimized files. An added benefit is that
it leaves your original files untouched. You should use your original
web folder for editing and use the duplicate web folder for uploading.
HTML-Optimizer features Smart Handling, supports XML and can handle web
pages with any text encoding. It offers many options to customize its
operation to your special needs. Drag and drop is supported.

 License : Shareware, $20, Pro Version $33
 Author/Publisher : Ton Brand
 Modification Date : January 2, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 5.5 MB - HTML-Optimizer 9.8.5

 Download 
File Size: 6.8 MB - HTML-Optimizer Pro 5.3.4

 Home Page 

 HTML Tidy 

When editing HTML it's easy to make mistakes. Wouldn't it be nice if
there was a simple way to fix these mistakes automatically and tidy up
sloppy editing into nicely layed out markup? Well now there is! Dave
Raggett's HTML TIDY is a free utility for doing just that. It also works
great on the atrociously hard to read markup generated by specialized
HTML editors and conversion tools, and can help you identify where you
need to pay further attention on making your pages more accessible to
people with disabilities.

Tidy is able to fix up a wide range of problems and to bring to your
attention things that you need to work on yourself. Each item found is
listed with the line number and column so that you can see where the
problem lies in your markup. Tidy won't generate a cleaned up version
when there are problems that it can't be sure of how to handle. These
are logged as "errors" rather than "warnings".

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Dave Raggett et al.
 Modification Date : October 20, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 259 Kb

 Source Forge Site 

 Home Page 

 Integrity 1.6.5 

If you've maintained a website for any length of time, you'll know that links very quickly
become broken.

We all move, delete or change pages, and when we do, it not only results in our own
internal links breaking, but other people's liks to our website becoming broken.
Similarly, when other people alter their pages, our own external links become broken.

Unless you enjoy clicking every single link on your site followed by the back button, then
you'll need to use website crawler like Integrity!

Feed it your home page address (url) and Integrity will follow all of your internal links
to find your pages, checking the server response code for all internal and external links
found.

 License : Shareware, Expiring Beta
 Author/Publisher : PeacockMedia
 Modification Date : November 22, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 272 Kb

 Home Page 

 iReplace 1.3 

iReplace is an application for advanced search and replace primarily for
web documents. iReplace allows you to specify multiple items to find and
replace or just to search for those items. iReplace allows you to select
special characters (such as ) and will replace those with the html equal
for those items.

 License : Shareware, $12.50
 Author/Publisher : LAJ Design
 Modification Date : September 23, 2002
 Requirements : Mac OS X and Mac OS 8.6 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 909 Kb

 Home Page 

 JChecker 3.0.5 

JChecker is a powerful HTML source code editor.
It supports many original functions such as a tag editing macro, tag help
macro, a services menu in OS X, 16 dictionaries for HTML/XHTML
validation, DTD auto-generated dictionaries, auto HTML error correction,
and powerful link checking including for sub linked pages plus much
more.

 License : Shareware, $36
 Author/Publisher : Satoshi Matsumoto
 Modification Date : June 5, 2003
 Requirements : Mac OS X and Mac OS 8.6 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 6.1 MB

 Download 
File Size: 5.4 MB

 Home Page 

 LinkChecker 0.6.1 

Check the validity of links on any webpage.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Kevin Freitas
 Modification Date : October 3, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X, Firefox 1.5 - 2.0

 Download 
File Size: 36 Kb

 Home Page 

 Link Checker 1.3 

Link Checker is a valuable tool for you to check the links on your web
site. Link Checker is very powerful. You can filter certain links so
they don't get checked and specify how many connections you would like
to have open for your web site. Link Checker can check all your web
sites if they are online or stored locally on your hard drive. Link
Checker is also smart. If your web site has a sub directory it will
decide if the link belongs to the subdirectory or the main site. As an
added bonus Link Checker also displays all links that are redirected
just in case a web site is moved.

 License : Shareware, $20
 Author/Publisher : Dot Software
 Modification Date : May 16, 2004
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.1 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 1.5 MB

 Download 
File Size: 1.2 MB

 Home Page 

 MacTidy 1.0b14 

When editing HTML it's easy to make mistakes. Wouldn't it be nice if
there was a simple way to fix these mistakes automatically and tidy up
sloppy editing into nicely laid out markup? Well now there is! Tidy for
Mac OS is designed for doing just that. Tidy for Mac OS checks and
corrects HTML and XML to make it compliant with the Worldwide Web
Consortium (W3C) HTML standards.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Terry Teague
 Modification Date : August 16, 2003
 Requirements : Mac OS X and Mac OS 8.1 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 814 Kb

 Home Page 

 Piltdown 0.6 

Piltdown, a command line HTML link checker created by Richard Rathe.
Piltdown is a Perl script that will run on nearly any networked
computer.
I wrote Piltdown after becoming frustrated with the alternatives. Most
link checkers available on the Web are either incomplete, inaccurate, or
both. For example, certain Web servers do not respond appropriately to
the HTTP "HEAD" request, so well written link checkers that depend on
HEAD will report missing links where there are none. (My testing
suggests that these non-compliant servers come from a certain
corporation with initials "MS". Why am I not surprised?!) Another GUI
based checker for OSX worked well, but flagged all relative links with a
leading "/" as errors when they were not. And what about links that hide
inside of CSS or javascript files? Most link checkers can't look inside
these non-HTML files. 
Put in your usr/bin directory and type piltdown in your terminal.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Richard Rathe
 Modification Date : April 24, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X

 Download 
File Size: 43 Kb

 Home Page 

 Poirot 1.53 

Poirot is a powerful search tool for making sophisticated searches &
replaces over thousands of text documents, web-pages and file-names in
seconds.

 License : Shareware, $10
 Author/Publisher : E.S.P. Graphics, Inc.
 Modification Date : March 23, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X and Mac OS 8.5 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 4.0 MB

 Download 
File Size: 3.9 MB

 Home Page 

 Sawmill 7.2.11 

Sawmill is a powerful, hierarchical log analysis tool that unlocks the
secrets of your web site! If you are in business to make money, you can
not afford to be without Sawmill.

 License : Demo, Lite $99, Pro $399, Enterprise $1700
 Author/Publisher : Flowerfire
 Modification Date : November 30, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 20.5

 Home Page 

 Simple Find & Replace 1.6 

Using them is simple. Just drag files and/or folders to the
application's icon to perform the indicated action. You may drag items
to the target field if the application is already running. Copy and
paste or type your data into the Find and Replace text fields.
All operations are case sensitive. Be sure to close target files that
are open in other applications before performing any operations.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Leland
 Modification Date : December 14, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 496 Kb

 Home Page 

 Site Soap 1.3.1 

Your website is ready, and you want your users to love it, but there is
always the problem of saving bandwith and space. You need Site Soap.
Site Soap allows anyone to quickly and easily optimize their entire
website, whether it is an image, a webpage or even a stylesheet, without
losing any quality; so what does this mean? It means that pages will
load faster (non-broadband users will thank you), your site will use
less bandwith and your code will be more readable and compliant.

 License : Shareware, $13
 Author/Publisher : Talacia Software
 Modification Date : July 29, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.4 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 697 Kb

 Home Page 

 Summary 3.0.8 

Summary is the web server log analysis tool that
tells you more. With over sixty reports, you can find out more about your visitors, connection bandwidth,
referrers, and all aspects of your website, than with any other tool.
Many unique reports including: search words used to find your site in major search engines,
periods when the server was down, most commonly used entry points into your site,
visitors connection (modem) speed.

 License : Shareware, $59
 Author/Publisher : Jason T. Linhart
 Modification Date : December 5, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2.6 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 5.6 - version 3.0.8

 Download 
File Size: 4.5 - version 2.5.5

 Home Page 

 Tidy Service 1.0.1 

Tidy Service can be used to clean up HTML markup in any application that
supports services by selecting the markup in question and choosing one
of Tidy menu items from the Services menu. Currently, there are two
processing options: Tidy Markup and Tidy to XHTML. Tidy to XHTML
instructs the Tidy engine to generate valid XHTML, while Tidy Markup
does not. Optionally, you can overide HTML Tidy defaults by creating a
config file in your home directory.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Scott Ahten
 Modification Date : February 22, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.5 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 713 Kb

 Home Page 

 Traffic Report 1.2.1 

Traffic Report software, a web log analysis application for the Mac OS.
For almost two years, we've been working diligently on developing a
user-friendly tool for webmasters who want quick, accurate analysis of
traffic to their Web sites. Using the extensive, easy-to-use
customization features, you can gather statistics and insight on almost
every aspect of your Web site activity. From visitors to hits to
downloads to errors, Traffic Report is the one, affordable tool you'll
find is the most versatile on the market today. We've worked with top
Webmasters, marketing pros and analysts to determine what features and
functionality would make our product complete. We think we found the
answer.

 License : Demo, $150
 Author/Publisher : Seacloak Software
 Modification Date : December 17, 2002
 Requirements : Mac OS X and Mac OS 8.6 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 498 Kb

 Home Page 

 Validator S.A.C 0.6.1 

Validator S.A.C. (formerly Validatelet) is a stand-alone, easy to install, version of the
W3C's HTML / XHTML Markup Validator for Mac OS X. Validator S.A.C. is a normal Mac OS X
application. No installation is required, just put Validator S.A.C. where you need it
(hard drive, flash drive, CD-R, etc).

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Chuck Houpt
 Modification Date : October 14, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 9.3 MB

 Home Page 

 Webalizer 2.01-10 

The Webalizer is a fast, free web server log file analysis program. It
produces highly detailed, easily configurable usage reports in HTML
format, for viewing with a standard web browser.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Bradford L. Barrett
 Modification Date : September 5, 2003
 Requirements : Mac OS X

 Download 
File Size: 416 Kb

 Home Page 

 WebLight 4.0.10 

WebLight software for Linux, Mac OS X, and Windows offers people a
practical way to find broken links, non-standard HTML, and links between
URIs on websites.

 License : Shareware, $25
 Author/Publisher : Illumit L.L.C.
 Modification Date : March 19, 2007
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 3.5 MB

 Home Page 

 WebsiteCleaner 1.2 

WebSiteCleaner removes unnecessary characters from html files, and prepares jpeg and gif files for use on the web.

 License : Shareware, $15
 Author/Publisher : MMISoftware
 Modification Date : May 23, 2005
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.2 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 257 Kb

 Home Page 

 Web Site Maestro 6.4.1 

Web Site Maestro speeds up your site by optimizing both HTML and script
code of your web pages and optimizing your JPEG and PNG images. It helps
you keep organized by creating a duplicate site folder for the optimized
files. An added benefit is that it leaves your original files untouched.
You should use your original web folder for editing and use the
duplicate web folder for uploading. If you work directly on the server
you can optimize your original pages. Web Site Maestro features Smart
Handling, supports XML and can handle web pages with any text encoding.
Moreover, it can check your web pages for dangling tags, missing
attributes and broken links. An integrated FTP Client enables one-click
optimizing and uploading, even to a parent site and mirror sites in one
pass, also in secure mode (ftps). You can synchronize your entire web
site with your local web folder or synchronize a single remote folder.
Web Site Maestro offers many options to customize its operation to your
special needs. Drag and drop is supported.

 License : Shareware, $40
 Author/Publisher : Ton Brand
 Modification Date : January 2, 2008
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 10.3 MB

 Home Page 

 XML Nanny 2.0 

Cocoa/Web Kit-based app for validating XML documents locally or across the network.

 License : Freeware
 Author/Publisher : Todd Ditchendorf
 Modification Date : July 17, 2006
 Requirements : Mac OS X 10.3.9 or higher

 Download 
File Size: 5.2 Kb

 Home Page 

 Denotes Mac OS X Intel Native 
 Denotes Mac OS X Intel & PPC Native 
 Denotes Mac OS X PPC Native 
 Denotes Mac OS 8/9 PPC Native 
 Denotes Mac OS 680x0 Native 
 Denotes Non-OS Specific Code 

 Back to the Main Page of Pure Mac