open CfS 

 Locations 

 Coaching for Solutions the next paradigm an on-line programme with Dr. Robert McNeilly MBBS & Dr Gabrielle Peacock MBBS FRACGP what is coaching for solutions? Coaching for solutions builds on the solution oriented principles begun by Milton Erickson, and encourages clients to reconnect with their resources and move on. Coaching for solutions doesn't focus on past causes, but rather on future goals. Coaching for solutions is concerned with action rather than explanations. Coaching for solutions goes beyond positive thinking to create and realise solid and individually tailored results. Coaching for solutions actively explores emotions and the body not merely as indicators ["body language"] but as powerful sources of solutions. This practical programme will be a substantial introduction for anyone wanting to include coaching in their work, and a valuable addition to coaches no matter how experienced. Principles The learning experience of this programme is both unique and everyday. The uniqueness is in its almost total lack of theory and formal structure; the everydayness is in the way the learning is personal and relates to any individual and their everyday experiences. For millennia learning has been the prerogative of the few, usually wealthy or privileged. Only over the last half century has this begun to change. Academic circles can still maintain a sense of elitism, and while the approach of this programme does not have any argument with academia, it has a radically different focus. Because this programme gives precedence to experience over theory, curiosity over fixed explanations, and individual differences over categorising into groups or classes, participants can expect to be more like themselves and less like any of those who may already be seen as expert in the field. Previous participants comment that their individuality is enhanced &ndash; personal and professional &ndash; and their individual style of working becomes more obvious as the programme unfolds. Structure The programme includes recorded lectures, an e-book, videos of demonstrations, written assignments, supervision, and most important of all, practice. Ultimately it is what participants learn and take into their clinical experience that will be crucial. Anything that is heard, read, observed or discussed, including personal growth, will become relevant as it incorporated in life or work. At the beginning of each of the 3 terms, and after payment has been received, notes and written assignments are distributed by email, also relevant links to lectures and demonstrations. Participants can then progress though their learning experience at their own pace. All participants are encouraged to form study groups with others as an important component of the learning process, many people reporting that they are the most relevant. Individual supervision is another important component, whether face to face, email, phone, peer supervision or some combination of these alternatives. Written assignments add to the breadth of the learning and there is often an expression of surprise when they are discovered to be enjoyable as well as useful. Most people report that 2 to 3 hours a week is more than enough to cover the individual work outside any workshops and study group experiences. Because of the solid foundations of the approach, there are many options for individual learning styles and outcomes, and participants can expect to develop confidence in their own individual style of learning and working. Accreditation These programmes are accredited by CET, as evidence shows overwhelmingly that external accreditation has no correlation with effectiveness of learning or application. Face to face Workshops These can be arranged in Hobart and involve additional cost. Other locations will be organised depending on numbers. Participants are welcome to repeat this programme without charge at any time in the future without limitation. Fees A$1915 or 3 payments of A$650 per term [including GST]. Content The programme is structured into 3 terms. In the first term we explore the effective use of language in coaching; In the second term we include emotions and the body as an integral part of coaching as well as strategies and positive reframing; In the third term we focus on specific applications of this approach as well as supervision issues. What you will learn &bull; The evolution of coaching throughout history and a contemporary understanding. &bull; Ways to create rapport and restore trust. &bull; Creating possibilities even in the most "resistant" or "chronic" situations. &bull; The creation of learning as a process towards solutions. &bull; Emotions and the body as sources of solutions. &bull; How to apply this approach to: &bull; life issues &bull; executive coaching &bull; coaching for leadership &bull; consulting &bull; transition from counselling to coaching &bull; any other specific situation Registration [essential]: Programme name Name Address phone email cet home