        

                      Stress Testing PCs with Linux

                    How to Make Your Hardware Reliable

                                  by 
                             Frank Sergeant
                        frank.sergeant@pobox.com

*Introduction

     How can you get your work done if you cannot rely on your
computer?  Fortunately, I had at least two unreliable computers of my
own to experiment upon.  Intermittent troubles are very difficult to
track down.  Is it the hardware or is it the software?  I will
describe the test I now use to answer that question.

*The Test

     Compiling the kernel of the Linux operating system uses the
resources of the computer so intensely that it makes a good test of
the hardware.  If the compile "blows up", then the hardware is bad.
This may take a leap of faith at first, but I will try to explain why
I think it is a reasonable hypothesis.  You might think that the
compile blowing up means a software bug in the compiler.  But, if that
were true, you would expect the compile to blow up at the same place
each time.  Compiling the kernel consists of running the compiler on
many different source files, producing an object file for each one,
then linking the object files together to form the final kernel.  (The
kernel is the heart, so to speak, of the Linux operating system.)
Typically, if the compile blows up, it does so during the compile of a
different source code file each time, sometimes after 45 seconds,
sometimes after 2 or 3 or 20 minutes, etc.  It is this random nature
of the problem that suggests bad hardware and not bad software.  More
details about this test, examples of hardware problems and what to do
about them, plus additional case histories are available from 
http://www.bitwizard.nl/sig11/ or in the file CGG-SIG11-FAQ available
on Linux distributions and ftp sites (for example, see 
http://www.infomagic.com).

     Remember, we are dealing with an intermittent problem.  If the
computer didn't work at all, we wouldn't have a problem, we'd just
replace it.  But, when it crashes once a day or once a week,
especially if we are running Windows, how do we know it isn't Windows
causing trouble?  The uncertainty is disturbing, not to mention the
problem of losing your work, corrupting your data, and upsetting your
employees and customers.  Because we are dealing with an intermittent
problem, compiling the kernel once does not prove the hardware is
good.  The more times in a row you compile the kernel successfully,
the more likely the hardware is good.  However, a single failed kernel
compile proves the hardware is bad.  Throughout this article, a "test"
or a "stress test" will mean running a kernel compile.  Since even bad
hardware can sometimes run a single test successfully, we must run a
series of tests, 10, 20, 50, or more, depending upon our patience.

     Following is the shell script to run the test multiple times.  I
name it 'stress.sh' and invoke it with 'stress.sh 10' to run a series
of 10 tests.  It reports the success or failure results to the screen
and also writes them to a log file named stress.summary.

----------------------- stress.sh ---------------------------------
#!/bin/sh
cd /usr/src/linux
passnum=1
while [ ${passnum} -le  $1  ] 
do 
    echo -ne 'starting compile #'$passnum at $(date)\
                | tee -a $HOME/stress.summary

    # perform the compile
    (make dep; make clean; make zImage)  2>&1 > /dev/null

    if [ $? -eq 0 ]   # test result code from running the compile
    then
       echo ' -- success --'  | tee -a $HOME/stress.summary
    else
       echo ' -- failure -- '  | tee -a $HOME/stress.summary
    fi

    # increment the pass number
    passnum=$((passnum+1)) 
done
-----------------------------------------------------------------

*What is Linux

     Linux is a free clone of the Unix operating system.  It runs on
various hardware, including PCs ('386 or better).  It is a more
reliable operating system than DOS or Windows.  It can co-exist with
DOS or Windows on a PC, allowing you to decide at boot time which
operating system you wish to use.

*Case Histories

**First Case History: Pentium 90 MHz (24 MB RAM)

***Symptoms

     This computer worked most of the time.  It would lock up perhaps
once a day or more often in Windows 95.  It would lock perhaps every
few days in plain DOS.  It essentially never locked up in Linux.  Even
in Linux, though, there were signs of trouble: a kernel compile would
never complete successfully and a large LaTeX compile would fail about
one in three times.  It would blow up at random places.  Even then,
the computer did not lock up, but just reported an error and returned
to the command prompt.  So, this is why I say that Linux is more
reliable than Windows or DOS: on the very same hardware, even though
the hardware was defective, Linux did not lock up but the other two
did.

***Testing

     I first suspected a RAM (memory) problem.  I spent several days
substituting various combinations of RAM chips and re-running the
tests.  None of the combinations of RAM chips solved the problem.

     Next, I pulled all of the cards that weren't essential to running
the test.  This didn't help.  Next I checked the motherboard settings
with the manual.  The CPU was rated at 90 MHz and I wanted to make
sure the motherboard hadn't been misconfigured to run at a higher
speed.  The settings were correct.

     Then, I changed the clock settings to reduce the external clock
speed from 60 MHz to 55 MHz.  This "fixed" the problem.  That is, a
series of tests completed successfully.  I replaced the cards and it
still worked.  I reset the jumper to 60 MHz and again the tests
failed.  I reset the clock to 55 MHz and the tests passed.  The
motherboard has two sets of jumpers.  One set controls the external
clock speed (60 MHz, 55 MHz, etc.) and the other controls the
multiplier for the CPU clock.  The lowest this would go was 1.5, thus,
for a 90 MHz Pentium (really an AMD chip), the external clock should
be set to 60 MHz and the multiplier to 1.5, giving 90 MHz for the CPU.
I was disappointed in having paid for a 90 MHz machine but only
receiving an 82.5 MHz machine.  But, I was much happier to have a
reliable machine at the slower speed than to suffer the data loss and
aggravation of the faster speed.  One test run took about 17 minutes.
I ran a series of 30 tests overnight -- all successful.

     The CPU has a fan and a heat-sink combination attached to it with
a plastic clamp -- the heat-sink is sandwiched between the CPU and the
fan.  The fins of the heat-sink face the fan and the smooth side of
the heat-sink touches the CPU.  The idea is that the fan blows air
over the fins to cool the CPU.  I was surprised to see that the
heat-sink was merely placed "bare" against the CPU.  In the old days,
voltage regulators and power transistors and other hot-running ICs
usually were mounted to their heat-sinks with thermal compound
(heat-sink grease) that was designed to improve the heat transfer.  I
hear that the lack of using the thermal compound is typical these days
for CPUs.  I am suspicious of this practice and think it may be
laziness or ignorance on the part of computer assemblers.  I remounted
the heat-sink to the CPU using heat-sink compound, reset the external
clock speed to 60 MHz and ran another series of tests.  Yes, this
fixed it.  Now the machine runs at full speed.

**Second Case History: Pentium 166 MHz (16 MB RAM)

***Symptoms

     This machine, in a network of three computers, all running
Windows 95, would lock up occasionally.  It was a new machine and no
reason or pattern was obvious.  The installer planned to return it to
his whole-seller for replacement.  I suggested we run the stress test
on it first to see if the problem really was the hardware.

***Performing the Test

     There were some problems setting up the test that I worked around
by temporarily installing my spare 120 MB hard disk.  I installed
Linux on that disk and was able to run the test without disturbing the
primary hard disk on the machine.  I felt I needed to do the tests
this way because the primary hard drive was set up as a FAT32 file
system with a single partition and would have been difficult to
repartition.

***Results

     One run of the stress test took about 13 minutes on this machine.
To my surprise, the first test was successful.  I set up the stress
test to run overnight and it ran successfully 57 times in a row.  Of
course, this does not prove the hardware is good.  The stress test
might have failed on the 58th time.  Also, the stress test does not
test everything.  Nevertheless, 57 successes in a row with no failures
is a good sign that the hardware is probably good.

     Our next best guess as to the cause of the lockup problem was
that it was caused by WordPerfect version 6.0a (a 16-bit Windows 3.1
program) running on that machine.  I had heard from an experienced
WordPerfect user that version 6.0 was particularly buggy.  WordPerfect
was upgraded on that machine.  The computer has not locked up since
then, although it has only been running for a few days.  We will keep
an eye on it and hope for the best.  Meanwhile, it appears this was a
software problem due to WordPerfect.

**Third Case History: '486 40 MHz (20 MB RAM)

***Symptoms

     This machine gave frequent problems under Windows 95 and under
Windows NT.  The registry would become corrupted, software installs
would fail, the computer would lock up, etc.  Even under Linux there
was trouble, although not as much as under Windows.  Linux would
usually lockup if left to run overnight.

***Special Considerations

     This machine presented an interesting problem due to its speed
and its value.  Because of its relatively slow speed, the stress test
takes a long time to run.  This makes the testing extra expensive in
terms of time.  Then, because of the machine's age and speed, it is
not worth very much.  So, the test costs more to run and the best
possible final result, a working '486 machine, has little value.
Therefore, if a '486 system seems to be causing trouble, instead of
testing and repairing it, it might be more "cost effective" simply to
replace it with a faster machine.

     Nevertheless, the stress test might be useful even on old, slow
machines as a quick "Good/Bad" test.  If the test fails, replace at
least the motherboard and CPU, don't try to locate the faulty
component.  If it passes the test, let it run overnight or over a
weekend to give more confidence that the hardware is ok and that the
trouble lies elsewhere.

*** Test Results

     Since I had the 120 MB hard drive already loaded with Linux after
testing the Pentium 166, it was not too difficult to open the case of
the '486 and connect this drive.  Because of other troubles I had been
having with the '486, I was fairly sure it would not pass the stress
test.  Sure enough it failed right away with lots of errors.

     I changed various things around over a period of about a week,
running lengthy tests between changes.  The final result appears to be
a reliable 12 MB machine.  It seems there were two problems: (1)
probably the 16 MB SIMM was bad and (2) the CPU needed a heat-sink and
fan.

     The length of time each test took depended upon the amount of RAM
and whether the external cache was turned on or off.  A single test
with 4 MB of RAM was still running after eight and a half hours when I
finally killed it.  It might have passed the test, but I'm not going
to run a series of tests where each one takes that long.  Thereafter,
I tested with at least 8 MB.  Normally, a series of 10 tests would
take between 8 and 15 hours.

     After removing what later turned out to be the bad 16 MB RAM and
replacing it with 8 MB of "known good" RAM that had passed the stress
test in another machine, I ran a series of 10 stress tests.  This took
about 15 hours.  Yes, with a '486-40 and only 8 MB of RAM (and a
fairly fat Linux kernel) each compile took around and hour and a half.
It passed the first 6 tests and the 8th test, but failed the 7th and
9th and 10th tests.  You see how tricky this is?  If I had stopped
after only 5 or 6 tests, I might have concluded incorrectly that the
hardware was now fixed.  Once the hardware is fixed, how many tests
would it take to prove it had been fixed?  We need to consult a
statistician, but I would say certainly more than 6 and probably more
than 30.

     Although I tried a number of changes, the next beneficial change
was to put a fan and heat-sink on the CPU.  This allowed a successful
series of tests.  To be sure the problem wasn't due just to the lack
of heat-sink and fan, I replaced the 16 MB SIMM and reran the tests
which again failed.  So, the final configuration has 12 MB of RAM and
appears (after passing about 22 tests in a row) to be fixed.

*Is it Worth It?

     It depends upon whether you are doing this for fun or not.  If
you are not doing it just for fun, it doesn't make much sense to spend
a lot of time running the tests and swapping out memory and rerunning
the tests time after time if you have a slow '386 or '486, especially
if you have less than 8 MB of RAM.  With at least 8 MB of RAM, it
might make sense to run the stress test on an old '386 or '486 as
means of verifying the hardware is good.  Forget it, though, if the
machine has less than 8 MB of RAM.  Even then, expect it to cost a
number of hours with, at the very best, a final diagnosis of "probably
good".  If any of the tests fail, the machine probably should be
replaced immediately because continued component replacement and
retesting won't be worth the cost in time of doing the tests.  If the
old machine tests bad, you might be better off buying a new
motherboard and CPU.  The latest ad I have from DreamTech
(800-237-3263) shows a 150 MHz Pentium motherboard/CPU for about $230.

     On the other hand, if you are using your computer for important
work and are experiencing problems, performing the test could be very
worthwhile.  If your problems really are due to bad hardware, this is
a way to fix them and to confirm that the hardware is now good.

*New Machines

     On new machines, a 150 MB partition could be reserved for Linux
from the beginning and Linux installed in it.  It is hard to buy a
machine new with as less than a 1.2 GB hard disk, so this might be a
reasonable use of about a tenth of the disk or less.  Run the stress
test at least overnight before putting the machine in service.  Later,
if there are questions about the machine's reliability, it is a fairly
simple matter to boot to Linux and run the stress test -- you don't
even need to open the case.

*Efficiency

     You might complain that this stress test is overkill.  Why should
you need to install an entire operating system, compiler, etc. just to
test the hardware?  I agree.  The problem is that RAM testers
apparently do not work reliably.  So, you take your RAM into a
computer store where the clerk tests your RAM and says it's good.  All
that means is the RAM is not always bad.  The RAM that causes you
trouble is the RAM that is almost good and fails only in rare
circumstances, perhaps once or twice a day or week.  It is the intense
and effectively random testing of memory that occurs as a by product
of compiling a Linux kernel that really gives the memory a proper
workout.  It stands to reason that the same sort of testing could be
done by a program designed for just that purpose, making the test a
lot easier to perform (and perhaps faster).  It should fit on a floppy
instead of requiring many megabytes of hard disk and RAM.  I suspect
such as test already exists or will exist, but I do not want to write
it or search for it or verify it myself.  I'll wait until someone
finds it for me.  Meanwhile, the Linux kernel compile is overkill, but
it's all I've got and it is a lot better than guessing.

*Conclusions and Speculations

     Don't tolerate flaky or questionable hardware.  Now that a test
exists you don't need to keep wondering whether it is the hardware or
the software.

     Always use thermal compound when mounting a heat-sink to the CPU.
The goal is to have the CPU itself run at room temperature, not just
to have a cool heat-sink.

     Old, slow computers may not be worth fixing unless doing it for
fun.  The test is more expensive to run and the end result is still an
old, slow computer.  For business purposes, your time and money might
be better spent upgrading the motherboard and CPU.

     The test is expensive and tedious to perform.  Pre-install Linux
whenever possible, if only to use for hardware testing.  Since that
might not always be practical, I plan to put together a Linux file
system that will fit on a ZIP drive so I can copy it to a temporary
Linux subdirectory on an ordinary DOS (FAT16) disk and run the test
from the DOS disk.  This probably won't work if the disk is a Windows
95 FAT32 or a Windows NT file system.  Because of this, I suggest, if
you must install Windows, that you use a plain FAT16 file system.

     Expect a cheaper, easier test to appear.  If you find it, please
tell me about it.  It shouldn't take 120 MB of disk space and
shouldn't require the installation of a full operating system and
compiler just to check out the hardware.  On the other hand, beware of
simplistic memory tests, including your computer store's RAM tester,
which will pass bad memory.

     Don't ever buy any Windows-only hardware.  Watch out especially
for modems and printers that work only with Windows.  Watch out for
Windows in general.  I read over the bug list in Kermit 95 for Windows
95 and Windows NT where the programmers listed bug after bug in
Windows 95 that they had to work around.  From that bug list, it
sounds like Windows NT might be the better choice if you insist on
running Windows.  On the other hand, some programs that run under
Windows 95 do not run under Windows NT.

     Always make proper backups of your important files.  Modern
desktop operating systems are too complex to trust completely.
Hardware can and will fail eventually even if it is not failing right
now.

     Am I unfairly down on Windows?  Possibly so.  After all, the
troubles I've had with it have been on machines that I now know had
hardware problems.  I'm interested to see how it works on the fixed
the hardware.  Nevertheless, let's not go out of our way to tie
ourselves to Windows.  Let's keep our options open.

