Unofficial BMW 

 Unofficial BMW 
 This site is not associated with BMW AG or BMW NA in any way. 
 Last Update: as of February 11, 1999 

--->

-->

 Table of Contents 

 Unique Resources 
 Official BMW Web pages 
 BMW Car Clubs 
 BMW Model Web pages 
 Other BMW Web pages 
 BMW Motorcycle Web pages 
 Popular BMW related pasttimes 
 BMW ftp sites 
 Email Services 
 Usenet 
 BBS 

 Not finding it here? 

 Search The Unofficial BMW website:

 tips 

 Resources unique to this site: 

3 Series:

 The Unofficial E30 Home Page (84-91 3 Series) Repair information archived from the mailing list and pointers to other maintenance information, and my own tips.

 The Unofficial E36 Home Page (92-97 3 Series) Repair information archived from the mailing list. 

 The Unofficial E46 Home Page (89-? 3 Series) Pictures, latest information, pointers to magazine reviews, repair information archived from the mailing lists and pointers to other maintenance information, and my own tips.

5 Series:

 The Unofficial E12 Home Page (76-81 5 Series) Repair information archived from the mailing list. 
 The Unofficial E28 Home Page (82-89 5 Series) Repair information archived from the mailing list. 
 The Unofficial E34 Home Page (89-95 5 Series) Repair information archived from the mailing list. 

 BMW Parts (Where to buy BMW parts online!)

 BMW Used Cars (Where to buy BMW used cars online!)

 BMW Mailing List FAQ (Hypertext index to text)

 My BMW ftp site 
 BMW E30 Email archive 
 BMW E36 Email archive 
 BMW general Email archive 

 I. BMW Web pages: 

Official BMW pages: 

 The Official BMW homepage
 The BMW Zentrum homepage
 The BMW USA homepage
 The BMW Germany homepage
 The BMW Canada homepage
 The BMW U.K. homepage
 The BMW Ireland homepage
 The BMW Italy homepage
 The BMW Indonesia homepage

BMW Car Club pages: 

 The BMW NA Car Club homepage 
 BMW-CCA Roadrunner Chapter homepage my current chapter
 The Puget Sound Region BMW CCA Home Page 
 Windy City BMW CCA homepage 
 The BMW Club of Canada. 
 The Golden Gate Chapter of the CCA. 
 New York Chapter of the CCA. 
 BMW Clubs Australia 
 BMW Car Club Great Britain 
 Site for all car clubs

Specific BMW car model web pages: 

 E36 M3 My new car

 E30 Network 

 E36 M3 BMW MPower Site

 ///M Cars 

 E36 Z3 Great site, nice graphics and plenty of info.

 The Unofficial E36 Home Page (92-97 3 Series) Repair information archived from the mailing list. Same formula as the E30 home page.

 Richard Poniarski's E36 318ti site.

 Dean Ching's E36 318ti Registry site.

 The Unofficial E30 Home Page (84-91 3 Series) Repair information archived from the mailing list and pointers to other maintenance information, and my own tips.

 Greg Scott's E30 BMW Page Good DIYer maintainence info

 Steve's 3-Series Page contains some performance information

 The BMW 325iC Page containing good convertible specific information.

 The 325ix homepage.

 Stoopid's 325 Garage 

 The M3 Special Interest Group homepage.

 The Unofficial BMW M5 homepage.

 The E24 homepage (630/633/635)

 The E9 homepage BMW CS Coupe

 Home Page of the BMW Sports Coupes Dedicated to the 850CSi, 635CSi and M3.

 Steve Bernstein's BMW Page Containing a E28 (5-series) homepage also including a brake FAQ.

 E28 Home Page Created by Chris Guy.

 7 Series Registry 

 E23 7 Series Homepage 

 E21 Page The BMW E21 High Performance Page.

 Bimmers.Com The new home of the 2002 Homepage

 BMW 02 Club The German 2002 page.

 Filippo Morelli's 2002 homepage A very nice ride.

Other BMW web pages: 

 Ben Liaw's Big Links Page! , 450 and counting!
 BMW Fanatic! 
 The BMW Mailing List homepage 
Lots of stuff here. Information about BMW cars and related events, slanted
toward North America. Parts suppliers, service shops, upcoming events,
links to other auto-related pages, drivers school info, books, BMW car
clubs. Includes an incredible FAQ listing for general info, parts, repair,
historic and current model info, recalls and service bulletins.

 The BMW Mailing List archive straight index
 The BMW Mailing List archive threaded and chrono order

 The BMW Mailing List 2002 archives Contains emails extracted from the mailing list for the years '93-'96.

 The UK BMW homepage European events, links to other homepages, interesting BMW's, club contacts.

 Alf's BMW 3-Series Galleria with some nice pictures of 3-Series.

 WebForum BMW Discussion Group An extension of the e-mailing list which includes all the posts arranged by subject.

 The ///Moss homepage 
The place for ///Moss's cars.

 Drivers Edge 
Looking for a BMW or Porsche? This is the place.

BMW Motorcycle web pages: 

 Internet BMW Riders (IBMWR) homepage 

 The BMW R-motorcycle homepage 

 The BMW K-motorcycle homepage 

 BMW Motorcycle Club of Victoria BMWMCCV's official WWW presence. Geared toward club members but also includes links to a few other pages.

Popular BMW pasttimes: 

Driving: 

 Great Drives 

Racing: 

 The SCCA homepage 
This detailed document has an introduction to the SCCA and information on
SCCA events, membership, and rules. It has a section with track
descriptions and a few maps and pictures.

Repairing: 

 BMW Parts (Where to buy BMW parts online!

 II. FTP sites:

 New! BMW Mailing List FAQ (Hypertext index to text) 
 BMW FAQ 
The BMW FAQ is available here.

 My BMW ftp site 
Jim Conforti's flash codes are here in Excel format. As well as the
BMW FAQ and other information. New! Now storing John Firestone's
UN*X email undigestifier, version 3.0.

 Rutgers Univ BMW ftp site 

 Chris P's BMW ftp site 

 III. E-mail Services:

 A big list of car email lists 

 The BMW mailing list(digest only), to subscribe send mail to: 
 E-MAIL 
with the subject line blank and "subscribe" in the body of the message.
Or, read more information on 
subscribing. 

 The E36 BMW mailing list(digest only), to subscribe send mail to: 
 E-MAIL 
with the subject line blank and "subscribe e36 your_email@address.com"
in the body of the message. The E36-Digest 
web site is up and running.

 The 318ti Compact BMW mailing list Subscription information is on it's homepage.

 E-MAIL with the subject line blank and "subscribe M3 digest" in the body of the message.

 E-MAIL Chris Kent, and ask to subscribe to the 2002 email list.

 Driver's school mailing list, to subscribe send mail to:
 E-MAIL 
with the subject line blank and subscribe in the body of the message.

 SCCA mailing list, to subscribe send mail to:
 E-MAIL 
with the subject line blank and subscribe in the body of the message.

 Order Robert Bentley Publishing's excellent repair manuals via 
 E-MAIL 

 BMW Tech Group E-MAIL list, you 
must be an experienced BMW Tech to subscribe to this private list.
Please include: your BMW experience and qualifications; the name of the shop or
dealer that you work for; your daytime (work) phone number; and your
e-mail address. BMW Tech Group 
website .

 IV. Usenet 

 newsgroup alt.autos.bmw
 Alt.Autos.BMW newsgroup
This is a new group as of 9/1/96, frustrated with the failing of rec.autos.makers.bmw, someone newgrouped this. 

 newsgroup wiz.bmw
 Wiz BMW newsgroup 
This is a new group that appears to have something to do with the vintage
BMW club

 newsgroup ailab.bmw
 AILAB BMW newsgroup 
This group is mainly a local reposting of the mailing list digest.

 newsgroup rec.autos.makers.bmw
 Proposed BMW newsgroup 
This group would suppliment the mailing list, not replace it. Still
under consideration.(FAILED CFA)

 V. BBS

 The Unofficial BMW Forum page hosted at DejaNews. Try it out!

 visitors since 5/20/96. More detailed statistics .
-->

 visitors since 1/25/99.

 FastCounter by LinkExchange 

More detailed statistics .

Extreme-dm 

 Click Here to Visit our Sponsor 

-->