Bruce Bicford: FEATS OF CLAY TITLE SEQUENCE 

 FEATS OF CLAY Of all the mediums in animation, it is clay that offers a sensory experience for the animator and the audience. It's a primal substance brought to life by the hands fo the animator. Produced one frame at a time and sometimes taking years to complete, it is by no small feat that any of the films in this anthology were created. I first saw Bruce Bickford's work in the early 1980s in Frank Zappa's concert film, Baby Snakes. It contained some wonderfully bizarre clay animated sequences scattered throughout this film.
 When Jon Fitzgerald, Director of AFI Fest, notified me last summer that Feats of Clay would premiere in Mann's Chinese Theatre, I contacted Bickford and invited him to create the opening title sequence in his distinct style. What you experience here though is the result of his stream-of-consciousness approach to filmmaking. To hear him explain his methods reminds me of what a painter goes through when he's in the moment of his work, unaware of anything else or himself, and therefore in a state of spontaneous creation. 
 In describing one of his segments, Bickford says, "Even though I didn't plan that out ahead of time, things like that were just the way things form. Sometimes when you're doing a materialization of something, you can start out with just a tiny shape and then add to it." In considering the time element in working with clay, Bickford adds "transformation is a lot like painting. You have to get beyond how long it's taking you and just let it take its own course." 
 Bickford admits that part of his opening title sequence includes some characters from his upcoming film, CAS'L' , which he's been making off and on since 1988. He says, "it features a gang that's so orientated to fighting they can't stop. They can't find a worthy enemy. They're cruel. They like innocent victims. Things get out of hand for them though and they fight among themselves. I expect to complete it sometime next year." Bickford lives in Seattle, Washington. He's received grants from The National Endowment for the Arts and the American Film Institute. When he's not animating for CASL, he's working on his line drawing films and writing stories. He's completed several line drawing short films over the years. It's another medium he uses to express his signature free-form style. Bickford would like to explore other mediums as well. "I'd like to team up with some computer animators and do all the various things it takes to expand the envelope," he muses. 

 What can we do for you? 

 &copy;1998 
 Raster Ranch, Ltd.