Dr. Ice's Web Development Page 

 Dana's WWW Home 

 Dr.Ice's Home |
 SciFi |
 Computers |
 Web Devo |
 Legal Code | 
 Business 
 Theatre |
 WWW Search |
 Reading | 
 Seattle |
 Training |
 Hobbies 

 Web Development Jumpsite 

 Links to Sites of Interest for Web Developers in Seattle, Washington, USA 

 Getting Started with Web Development 

 Resources for Eskimo North Subscribers 

 Intermediate &amp Advanced Web Devo 

 Sites to Get Web Devo Tools 

 Code and Site Evaluation Tools 

 Web Browsers 

 Miscellaneous Helpful Information 

 Some Interesting Example Sites 

 More of Dr. Ice's site 

 Places to Start Learning About Website Planning and HTML: 

 John December's Web Development Seminar 
 NCSA's Beginner's Guide to HTML 
 HTML Style Guide 
 The 1994 Version of the Crash Course in HTML by Eamonn Sullivan. The place it all 
started for me and my Notepad. ::chuckle::
 The 1996 Version of the Crash 
Course in HTML by Eamonn Sullivan. Old information can be helpful in understanding the evolution 
of our art. Plus, this page is a nice starter's guide. You can throw a simple page together in minutes
with no fancy software, just an ASCII text editor like Notepad, SimpleText, or PICO.
 Another Version of the Crash Course 
 at the W3-Tech School of Web Design. It has Crash Courses in HTML, Java and JavaScript.

 The World Wide Web Unleashed -- Chapter 33: Basic Hypertext Markup Language (HTML) 

 A Practical Guide to Developing World Wide Web Content Published by
 Seattle's Public Access Network (PAN).
 A very nice guide, written for content providers who wish to publish materials on the City of Seattle's PAN WWW Site.
 It's also a very handy overview for anyone who is thinking of developing WWW content elsewhere. 

 Back to Top of Page 

 More of Dr. Ice's site 

 Resources for Eskimo North Subscribers: 

 Starter Home Page for Eskimo North Subscribers 

 CGI Authoring on Eskimo North 

 Back to Top of Page 

 More of Dr. Ice's site 

 Places to Learn More About Writing HTML (and ASPs, CGI Scripts, etc.) and About WWW Sites: 

 JHU/APL's WWW HTML Developer's JumpStation 
 The Active Server Pages Site Companion to
 Active Server Pages Unleashed 
 Dr. Design's Home Page ask web design questions...
 WebMastery Resource Lists 
 Standards for an Interactive Web 
 Publishing on the Web at Carnegie Mellon
 The World Wide Web Unleashed -- Chapter 34: Advanced HTML Features 
 The HTML Guru! 
 Yahoo! 's HTML page 

 WebCom Guide - HTML Guide - Creating Imagemaps (clickable images) 

 Creating Transparent Background Images 
 iHTML 
 Learn by Learning What Not To Do 
 Ariadne Web Design Hints 
 Allaire's Web Developer Site Contains tons of sample code, and some training
materials on Allaire products. Most training materials are in RealVideo, requiring a sound card on your
machine.
 Web Learning Center 
 WebReference.com - The Webmaster's Reference Library

 Back to Top of Page 

 More of Dr. Ice's site 

 Places to Get Tools: HTML Editors, Graphics Programs,
 Helper Applications: 

 Allaire , makers of HomeSite and ColdFusion
 Adobe , makers of PhotoShop, Acrobat and PageMaker
 Microsoft's Download Page 
 Microsoft's Browsers, Editing Tools, server components, etc.
 HTML
Assistant at Brookline North Software 
 RGB Color Chart Text Colours -
Hexadecimal triplet reference and tutorial
 Tools for Aspiring Web Weavers at NASA 
 Macromedia , makers of Dreamweaver

LookSmart's List of Web Development links. An amazing jumpsite to all sorts of resources for
people like us making web sites.
 Metacreations , makers of
 Painter 5.5 (Web Edition), MetaStream, Kai's Power Tools, and Ray Dream Studio 
 Wacom , makers of the ArtZ II 12 X 12 tablet
 Graphic Workshop for Windows 
 Galleries of downloadable images:

 Texture Land Junction Texture graphics for backgrounds. (Most style guides recommend against using background graphics.) 
 Coder.com Home of the Free Online Banner Generator
 Web Clip Art and Icons Page at the Mining Company
 The Clipart Connection 
 An enormous collection of art for web pages, and links to other sites like it.
 Free Web Art At A Touch of Magic 

 Transparent background Image Resources:

 Transparent Background Images 
 How do I use Lview Pro to create transparent images on my PC? 

 Back to Top of Page 

 More of Dr. Ice's site 

 Online Web site evaluators: 

 SiteInspector at the LinkExchange
 Web Site Garage 
 GIF Wizard Evaluate one page, your whole site, or use
 their gif compression utility
 Bobby Evaluates your site for accessibility
 to people with disabilities 
 Jumpsite of Site evaluation Products at Elsop 

 Back to Top of Page 

 More of Dr. Ice's site 

 WWW Browsers: 

 Netscape Communications 
 Yahoo's World Wide Web Browsers Page 
 The WDVL: WWW Browsers 
 Web Developer's Virtual Library: Browsers 
 NCSA Mosaic for Microsoft Windows Home Page 
 NCSA Mosaic for the Macintosh Home Page 

 Back to Top of Page 

 More of Dr. Ice's site 

 Places to Find Miscellaneous Helpful Information: 

 LinkExchange A Web Developer's Jumpsite
 devoted to simple solutions to grow online traffic and revenue 

 HyperNews 

 Web Collaboration Projects 
 The World Wide Web Consortium 

 TORNADO ePUBLISHING A Local Seattle Web Development Company

 Digital Art Services A Company Which Sells Digital Art and Offers Seminars

An International Internet Providers List 
 The List of internet access providers,
 by region, area code, etc.

 Eskimo North Includes instructions for Eskimo North Users on Setting Up a website , plus A Cool
 "Starter Home Page" section, plus links to other helpful info.

 Examples of Acceptable Use Policies 
 Yahoo - Computers 
 911 Media Arts Center 
A local Seattle center that offers many classes in the media arts,
including a lovely one on WWW Publishing
 Computer Education Workshop Catalog 
 Micro Modeling, Inc. 
 Seattle Webgrrls 

 Back to Top of Page 

 More of Dr. Ice's site 

 Example Web Pages: 

 Web Pages That Suck 
 How to tell bad web design when you see it, and how to prevent and repair it on your own site.
 Paul Haas's Web Server 
 A robotics interface to his hot tub, refrigerator, and robotic arm that waves to his cats... 
 nj's visual home page Just a funky cool example page...
 Seattle Web's Maps 
 Trojan Room Coffee Machine 
 A current image of how much coffee is in the coffee machine at the University of Cambridge's
 Computer Science Department ::chuckle:: 
 Geek Code Generator 
 A form that feeds into a program that spits out a string of text with all the proper formatting
 for inclusion in one's sig file
 The Nerdity Test 
 An actually useful function for Java, an interactive online questionnaire
 UW Computer Science Department 
 Follow the links under the SPOTLIGHT section to live colloquia and classes on the Web. 
 Also of interest is the camera attached to the home page for the UW .
 Cool Site of the Day Sites
 that someone considers really cool today. Remember, taste is a
 wildcard variable in any artistic endeavour. ::chuckle:: 

 Back to Top of Page 

 More of Dr. Ice's site 

 Search Engines to Find More WWW Sites of Interest: 
 Dr. Ice's Search Engine Page 

 Back to Dr. Ice's Home Page 

 Dr. Ice's Internet Training Hotlist 
 Back to Top of This Page 

 Updated August, 2001 by Dana Rice. If you know of any more sites
that would be of interest to web developers in Seattle, please email me
at drice@eskimo.com with
the URL and a description, and I'll add it to the list! 

This site hosted by