Dr. Ice's Home Page at Eskimo North 

 Dana's WWW Home 

 Dr.Ice's Home |
 SciFi |
 Computers |
 Web Devo |
 Legal Code | 
 Business 
 Theatre |
 WWW Search |
 Reading | 
 Seattle |
 Training |
 Hobbies 

 Dr. Ice's Hotlists at Eskimo North -->

 The Dr. Ice Hotlists: 

 --> Theatre and Film Industry 

 --> Science Fiction & Fantasy 

 --> Business & Employment 

 --> Legal Code 

 --> Web Development 

 --> WWW Search Engines 

 --> Pacific NW Area Sites 

 --> Computer-related Sites 

 --> More miscellaneous hobbies 

 --> On-line Magazines, Books and Libraries 

 --> Training About the Internet 

 --> Online Game Sites 

 Back to top of this page 

 Who is Dr. Ice? 
 Why did Dr. Ice's Home Page move? 

 Dr. Ice's Current Favourites: 

 Seattle Public Library Website: 

 http://www.spl.org/ 

 The Bulwer-Lytton Awards 
 Check out the awards for worst first line of a novel. :-} Very funny.

Dr. Ice's Science Fiction & Fantasy Page 

Star Trek, BAB5, Xena, etc...

The Surrealism Server 
 Includes The Surrealist Compliment Generator!

 Women's Writing on the Web:
Why " grrls " are only part of the story 

 Guest Article at contentious.com 

 Digital Blasphemy 
 The Coolest downloadable art! Some free, some for subscribers only. :-}

Metropolitan Museum of Art 

Geekcode Generator 

 Back to top of this page |
 Back to Dana's WWW Home 

 Pacific Northwest Area Links: 

 Seattle WWW Sites 
 Links to sites containing info about Seattle, 
 and gifs of Seattle and Mt.Rainier... :

City of Seattle Home Page 

 King County Democrats Home Page 

 The Seattle Times 

 Seattle Webgrrls 

 Back to top of this page 

 Dr. Ice's Computer-Related Hotlists: 

 Dr. Ice's List of WWW Development Sites. 

 Dr. Ice's List of Online Training about the Internet 

 Ever More Computer-Related Sites! 

 Computer Gaming Sites! 

 Back to top of this page 

 Search Engines to find places of interest: 

 Search Engines 

 Back to top of this page 

 Email questions or comments to:
 dana@danarice.net 

 Back to top of this page 

 Who is Dr. Ice, and where did Dr. Ice's Home Page at Eskimo North go? 

 Dr. Ice is just another way to pronounce drice , my account name at my ISP, Eskimo North. 
 My geekly friends came up with it back in 1993, to help 
 them remember my email address drice@eskimo.com (to which I've recently added the alias domain names danarice.net and danarice.org, but it all ultimately goes to drice@eskimo.com). See? Dr. Ice at Eskimo North made remembering that mess easier, especially back then, when the general public wasn't yet familiar with email address formats. The Dr. Ice name was convenient then for my website purposes also, because anonymity was a little more important in the days before the general public had web sites. I was regularly flamed on technical and sci-fi usenets, just because I'm female. Actually, since my first name is gender-neutral, it was more like I was being flamed just in case I was female. (any male Danas reading this are probably chuckling about now... ;-} . There were so many buttheads on the internet then. ::chuckle:: Like there aren't now! ;-} ) Until a couple of years ago, you couldn't find my real name anywhere on this site. I just got tired of being a target. Things have changed, though, and I've learned how to make KillFiles for flaming and spamming emailers, plus all the online acting talent banks want to link to your home page, so I finally gave in and -re-designed the site, splitting it into two areas "The Dr. Ice Hotlists" and "Dana's WWW Home".

 Dr. Ice has also turned out to be a handy nom-de-guerr for networked gaming, like with Quake or ATF. ::He he he:: Really! Plus, some folks just think it's cool or something. Hey, there's no accounting for taste, you know? People actually call me this to my face. I answer to it. I haven't had many nicknames in my life, so it's a novelty. :-)

 And no, I'm not a hip-hop artist, although I do believe that there should be an effort out there to convert many classical songs that we learned in college voice lessons to rap/hip-hop. The meter and rhyming scheme are the same in many cases. No! I'm not kidding! Try it sometime with that song they use as the theme song for the TV show "American Journal". It's called "Simple Gifts". Or, try the italian aria "Nel Cor Piu Non Mi Sento". I'm not kidding. In fact, I'm so serious about this, I'm going to write a comedy routine around it, record it and put the file out here on my website, as soon as I get the technology to do that. Think what a fabulous tool to teach the words to classical tunes! All right, if any of you know Ryan Fletcher or Jane Wyss, my college voice professors, you don't have to tell them I said all this... ::sigh::

 As to where Dr. Ice's Home Page is going, it's still here, it's just undergoing some changes! This site began as my Mosaic hotlist (the equivalent to "Bookmarks" or "Favorites" in Netscape and Interne Explorer), because I used several different computers in different locations and got tired of having many different hotlists/bookmarks/favourites everywhere, so I consolidated them here on my website. I also used the site as a place to share information with co-workers outside the firewall that encloses my employer's network. This is where Dr. Ice's Internet Training page, WWW Developer's Page, Computer Resources Page and Seattle WWW links page started, as mirrors of our internal web pages at my workplace. They have morphed into different creatures lately, more for my own personal reference, so not as broad-reaching as they once were. I've added Employment Links for all my friends and myself to reference when we've been looking for our next job. I've added Theatre Links for all half-dozen of my theatre friends who have access to the web. Many of the other Dr. Ice lists have gone long-neglected, and I'm about ready to revamp them. They aren't going away, though, they 'll just get rid of some dead links and get a face lift... I don't believe in changing filenames on web pages unless there is no choice, so nobody's links here will go dead.

 The biggest change on my site of late is the addition of material other than the hotlists, material that has to do with me, like my resumes, and material that offers something I can't find anywhere else on the web, like the Seattle-Area Theatre Hotlines and Callboards page. This is still primarily for my own reference, but it is finally something on this site that isn't just a link somewhere else. Also new as of a few years ago is my "What Am I Up To?" Page, which gives me a place to post notices about my theatre and musical performances, for my friends, family and fellow theatre geeks who have asked to be told about it. I mainly came up with it to have a place to link to in an email notice about the shows, giving directions and giving friends a little bit of info about the production and the company, etc... Well, you know, and my usual smarmy thoughts and mental meanderings... :-}

 The next big change, after I swept the site for dead links and implemented new navigation, was to add some original material - My own writing, more shared collaborative space for my friends and members of my listservs, more original content on the computer and internet topics I have hotlists for. I mean, I've been doing webmastering since 1994, so I guess my website could actually have a cohesive design someday. The problem is, I use it for testing concepts, which is why the Dr. Ice site is always a little incongruous design-wise. It's fun to go peruse the Wayback machine for a pecific page and see what all it's been through. I've tried some funky things, and some of them got caught int he snapshots! I'm do try to keep my site design in a way that my friends who are still Lynx users have as little trouble as possible. I do believe in interoperability, and this site is simple on purpose. It used to boast the little button that says "Viewable by Any Browser". ::sigh:: Those were the days!

 Thanks for coming by to visit. Please let me know if you have any suggestions for "The Dr. Ice Hotlists" or "Dana's WWW Home". 

 dana@danarice.net 
 Top of this page |
 Dana's WWW Home 

 Back to top of this page 

This site hosted by