Dana's Internet and Netiquette Info Page 

 Dana's Writing Collection |

 Dr.Ice's Internet Training | 

 The Dr.Ice Hotlists 

 Dana's Internet and Netiquette Info Page 

 Dana's Beginning Internet Guide for Her Friends at the City of Seattle 

 The Ten Commandments
 of Computer Ethics 
 from the Computer Ethics Institute

 Dr.Ice's Internet Training Page 

 Rinaldi's Internet User Guide
 and Netiquette Reference 
 at Florida Atlantic University

 Danas Beginning Internet Guide
 For Her Friends at the City of Seattle 

 &copy; Dana Rice 

I originally published this guide when working as a network administrator and PC desktop support tech
for the City of Seattle. Freshly infected by Unix/Internet training, I was asked to build the 
first website for the City of Seattle, and I began working with a great,
diverse group of folks, municipal government employees building their first internet presence. 
Transportation engineers, police officers, human resources folks, all with the objective of 
helping the public. And, working for the 
municipal government, they needed help understanding the medium, without a budget for training.
And really, there wasn't much in the way of training when we started in 1994. We learned everything
off the web (See the Dr. Ice Web Development Home Page and the Dr. Ice Internet Training Page
for a hotlist of where we learned, and continue to learn, about the Internet). 

It is a relatively informal guide written for busy people when I installed their internet 
software (FTP, email reader, usenet reader, web browser, telnet and TN3270 clients, etc.)
to give them a leg up and a few warning signs of common problems they might encounter.
It was also the first step of web developer training. I've updated it only slightly to keep up 
changes in the times. I still get notes from people (as recently as Spring of 2001) who come across
it and find it useful. May it continue to help. :-}

This is an informal introduction to an informal medium, the Internet. The Internet is a very 
broad topic with lots of nuances. In this guide, Ill try to give you a functional 
overview to get started with, and then point you to many wonderful 
resources on the World Wide Web which have more information. 

 I. Intro to the Internet! 

 What is the Internet? 

The Internet is a great big spiderweb of computers and wires and satellites 
and such, spanning most of the planet. Its been around for about 25-30 years, with its 
roots in military organizations, educational institutions, and government agencies. 
 There are several different ways that information is served up on the Internet, so there 
 are several different tools for accessing that information. The most common methods of 
 serving up information for Internet users are: 

 Email - Electronic mail. 

 Where can you send email? There are three main types of addresses you can use: 

 Someones personal email address. The easiest way to find out someones personal 
email address is to
 call them and ask them . Honestly! Many people have multiple 
email addresses, or none at all, and the best way to find out which address they prefer 
you use to write to them is to call and ask them. There is no one definitive address 
book of email addresses. There are some interesting attempts at them, however, like 
these on the World Wide Web: 

 Internet Address Finder:
 URL: 

 http://www.iaf.net/ 
 Four11 Corporation - has over 6 million internet email address listings: 
 URL: 

 http://www.four11.com/ 
 search.coms People Search page - lots of links to other search engines: 
 URL: 

 http://search.cnet.com/Single/0,7,0-1300572,0200.html 

If you dont have their phone number to find out their email address, try these 
sites on the World Wide Web:
 American Directory Assistance: 
 URL: 

 http://www.lookupusa.com/ 
 Yahoos People Search Page: 
 URL: 

 http://people.yahoo.com/ 
 People Search (US) 
 URL: 

 http://206.129.166.108/people.html 

 A mailing list or "
 listserv " address. This is an address to a 
program that takes your message and re-posts it to a list of people who are subscribed to 
the list. Youll hear about these from friends and co-workers, or read about them in the media
or on websites about your topics of interest. Once you're subscribed, email from 
a listserv or mailing list will come to your personal email inbox. Some of them are just like 
subscribing to a newsletter, so youll only get the periodic posting of the newsletter 
itself in your inbox. Others are like big free-form email discussion groups, and 
subscribing to them could cause you to receive hundreds of messages a day from other 
people subscribed to the list. We currently are unable to send listserv and mailing 
list subscription requests through our citywide email internet gateway because most listserv 
programs require a certain verbage in the first line of the message in order to 
subscribe you, and our gateway adds header info to the top of the message, so it 
doesnt get through. There are some work-arounds, so please contact the ITS help 
line if you need to subscribe to a list service. 

 Usenet News - These are like giant bulletin boards (called "newsgroups")
 in the sky which people post email messages upon. Each newsgroup has a theme 
 ( usually reflected in its title), and there are thousands of them. 
 If I could, I would put a big sign on all Usenet stuff that says,
 "Danger! Danger!". Keep in mind when you are perusing 
 usenet newsgroups that you may be corresponding with experts in their fields, 
 or with complete idiots, or with anyone in-between. Anyone in the world with 
 Internet access can post to these groups, and many of them are rude. Very rude .
 Do not respond to rude email, ever. Itll only get you more rude email 
 in your personal inbox. Lots and lots of rude email in your inbox. (Ill e
 xplain why in a moment.) I often remind people that the internet has been 
 around for 25-30 years, and it has largely been the domain of geeks and nerds 
 with no social skills, and it is strictly and mercilessly self-policed. With this 
 in mind, a few rules of the road will help you. The most important rules, the 
 ones at the top of the list, are not there for cultural or social reasons, but
 to save computer hardware from breaking . Even the ones that are social 
 have repercussions will lead to hardware breaking (our hardware, on the City 
 of Seattle's network, as well as other peoples on the internet), so please 
 pay attention.: 

 Email rules of the road: 

 Dont "Flame". Flaming is defined as rude email. Do not berate 
people or be rude to them in any form of email, ( especially on usenet groups or listservs ), 
even if they deserve it. Yes, this is a kind of "social" rule on the internet, 
but the repercussions have hardware effects. The way that the internet polices itself 
is via flaming, so the effect of your flaming someone is that you will get flamed. 
Big time, by lots of people from all over the world. You might receive hundreds of 
rude messages from all over the world in your email inbox. This could break our hardware, 
our Seattle Police Department email server hardware. Please dont flame. Be polite 
at all times. You are representing the City of Seattle with every word you write in 
email. If you cant resist writing a rude email, save it as a draft in cc:Mail, let 
it sit for 24 hours or more, and then re-read it and reconsider the effect it will 
have on our department-wide or city-wide hardware. Please dont flame... Please.... 
Remember that whatever you post to a usenet group will be seen by millions of people 
all over the world. Millions. Im not making this up. Really. 

 Dont "spam". Spamming is defined a few different ways: 

 Sending email to many different addresses at once, when you dont know that the 
recipients are interested in the message. 
 Sending a message to a usenet group or listserv whose topic is not related to 
the content of your message. 
 Sending a message to more than one usenet group at a time, especially if it is 
a long message. 
 Sending email advertising anything. 
 Sending email that you know the recipient doesnt want to see. 
 Sending email to any listserv or mailing list to which you are not subscribed. 

The reason that this rule exists is because, if everyone were to send out junk 
mail on the internet, it would cause email servers all over the world to bog down 
and break. And again, the way that the internet polices itself is via flaming, so 
the effect of your spamming is that you will get flamed... by lots of people from 
all over the world. Hundreds of rude messages from all over the world in your email 
inbox. This could break our hardware, our City of Seattle email server 
hardware. Please dont spam... Pretty please.... 

Another big deal these days is how much spam anyone with an email address gets these
days. A good rule of thumb is to never respond to unsolicited email, especially advertisements,
especially if they say, "Reply to remove yourself from our mailng list." Most of the 
time, those reply messages do not really remove you from the list, but are a trick to 
get you to confirm your email address exists, and replying will mean that your address
not only remains on the list that meant you got the message, but new lists once your 
address is confirmed. Also, a lot of times advertisements are sent through unmonitored 
accounts. Your best bet to dealing with spam is to ignore it. If you want to do more,
you can try to contact the ISP of the party who sent it to you and complain. For more
ways that you can help police spam in the internet, go to your favourite
 search engine and type "I hate spam." (Yes, I'm serious. :-} ) 

Another common tool that can help you if you receive flames or spam is creating a "kill file". 
This means setting up a "rule" in your email reader so that mail from a particular sender, that
you know is just going to be unsolicited garbage, can be automatically redirected to your
trash bin or to a place that you don't have to see it until you have a comfy chair, a cup of
coffee and the luxury to get really mad. ::sigh:: Call the IT Helpdesk if you'd like details 
on how to set up rules in our City of Seattle email programs. 

Another big source of spam is certain websites. Some of them log the return address in your
browser configuration settings, and put you on a mailing list of their "customers", not even 
knowing if you came to their site by mistake or design. Some folks avoid getting spam by putting
bogus addresses in their web browser settings, like dontspamme@real.address.in.sig.file. This
helps when you're on usenets, too. If your real email address is in your signature file so that
people can get hold of you, your return address in your browser can be bogus. Remember you've done
this, though, in case you expect a professional colleague to respond to you and you're sending
email from your web browser. You do want to get legitimate mail. 

One suspect in websites that gather addresses is any site where you actually 
manually give your email address for a free service, like those online greeting card 
sites and such. It's a good idea, whenever you type your email address into a web form,
to look for a box that says "Send me stuff.", or some such thing, and make sure it isn't checked.
The good sites will give you a choice, and you need to make sure you know that you have it. 
You can always refuse to fill out a form that doesn't give you a choice. 

Unless you are a detective in the Vice squad and have a business reason to investigate, please
just immediatelyt delete any spam you may receive as advertisements for pornography, unless
they are ads for something that is illegal adn should be reported as a crime, like child 
pornography. If you receive child porn ads, contact the vice squad of the police department 
and they will investigate it as a crime. Viewing anything pornographic on your computer screen violates the City of Seattle Hostile
Work Environment policies (this topic to be treated later in detail). 

Finally, many of us routinely receive stories, poems, anectdotes, and virus warnings in email
that are not the original writing of the sender. It is very common to receive very serious-
sounding warnings and things that look like political action notices.
 Most of these warnings are
not real. Many of them have been cirulating around the internet, preying on the sensitivities of
new email users, for decades. Do not forward them to anyone until you have checked to see if they are
known hoaxes or urban legends. Some websites to check are these:

 Snopes.com - See if that alarming message is just a scam

 http://www.snopes2.com/ 

 CIAC Internet Hoaxes Page - More on scams 

 http://hoaxbusters.ciac.org/ 

 Urban Legends Archive - See if that forwarded story is known to be bogus

 http://www.urbanlegends.com/ 

 Lurk before posting anything. 

Lurking is defined as reading the things that other people post in usenet groups 
or to listservs before you post anything yourself. Many usenet groups have been 
abandoned by the original makers of the group and the group currently has nothing 
to do with the title of it. Some old abandoned usenets get taken over by 
"flamers", people whose sole endeavour is to set up a space in which to be rude.
 Really, really rude. This is why its a good idea to "lurk", read the 
things that other people post to a group to be sure that its where you want to be. 
If you find something offensive or you find the group not what you expected, leave. 
Dont get involved in the discussion, as this will amount to spamming and get you flamed. 
Keep in mind that when you post to a usenet group, millions of people all over the world 
will see your message. There are people with nothing better to do than cruise the 
usenets looking for any message with a return address of a government employee. 
(In our case, anything that ends in "@ci.seattle.wa.us". ) So , if you 
post about your boat for sale using your city account, the public will know about it. 
If you post something as a joke, the public will know about it. If you post something 
stupid, the public will know about it. If you post something brilliant, the public 
will know about it. Not only that, they will view you as a representative of the 
City of Seattle when you do these things... Please, only 
post if you absolutely have to, and make sure that you include a disclaimer in the 
message if it isnt an official position of the City of Seattle, WA, USA. 
Speaking of which: 

 Always use disclaimers. 

The City of Seattles official Internet Acceptable Use Policy requires us to 
put a disclaimer at the end of every message we send over the Internet that is not an 
official position of the City of Seattle. That disclaimer can be in a "Signature 
file", a simple ASCII text file that you import in to your email that has standard 
information, like your name and email address (for the benefit of people whose mailers 
dont show them these things), and the disclaimer, which should read: "Opinions 
expressed are my own and not necessarily those of the City of Seattle." (I know,
 youre thinking, "Duh.", but it really does keep the City out of legal 
 trouble. Most companies require these things. Youll get used to seeing them on 
 other peoples email. Mine is a slight variation on the theme. It says, "Opinions 
 expressed are not necessarily my own, nor are they those of the City of Seattle." 
 ::chuckle:: I know, I should get out more... :-) ) Call the helpdesk if you need
 help making a signature file in your email reader. 

 Read the FAQ. An FAQ is a list of Frequently Asked Questions. Do a search 
on the messages in a group of interest and find out where the FAQ is, and then go read 
it. It might be on a WWW site, or a telnet site, or it might be periodically posted 
to the group. As a last resort, you can post a message to the group asking where the 
FAQ is, but only after you have "lurked" for awhile to be sure that the 
topic of discussion and the tone of the conversation are things that are compatible 
with your business objectives for participating in the group. 

 Learn to read and use emoticons. Emoticons are ASCII text representations 
of sideways faces that are used in email to indicate intent. They can be the difference 
between someone taking your message as funny, or as a flame. Sarcasm rarely reads as 
intended, for example, so its best to emphasize your intent. Itll also help you to 
read other peoples intents. Here are some examples of emoticons (remember to look 
at them sideways): 

 :-) simple smiley face, used to indicate a light mood to a statement 

 ;-) a winking smiley face, used to indicate sarcasm or joking 

 >;-> an evil or treacherous face 

 8-) a face with glasses 

 :-D a big grin! 

 :-P sticking its tongue out to indicate yuckiness... 

Well, you get the idea! There are several sites on the World Wide Web that 
show examples and decoders, but people are usually pretty creative... Just be sure 
youre able to be understood. Using too many emoticons will confuse your audience
to the point that the effect will be void. 

 Dont use return receipts on Internet email unless its a legal requirement. Return receipts constitute a form of spamming and just take up bandwidth on mail 
servers. They are generally regarded as banned on the internet, and some mail servers 
wont do them at all. And, if they interact with someone's vacation rule, it creates 
even more problems. My advice is just don't use them unless you need legal verification that
a message was received. 

 When replying to a message from someone else, include just enough of the text 
of their original so that they know for sure what you are responding to . But, 
dont include more than you have to for this purpose. The balance that you want to 
strike is that they will understand what youre responding to, and that your message
 wont end up being too long. 

 Put a (LONG) tag in the subject line of messages that are more than a couple 
of screens long. Keep in mind that some email servers have limits on how big a 
message they will let through, so your associates at other agencies may not get your
 message if it is bigger than their servers limit. (In the Citys case, no 
 attachments bigger than 4M are allowed through. Anything bigger than that, 
 and you need to use FTP to get or send the file.) Also, keep in mind that 
 some peoples Internet Service Providers (ISPs) charge them email fees based onthe size 
 of their incoming messages, so long messages may cost your friends and associates money... 

 Remember that email is not secure and is often not very swift. Email 
on the internet is not secure. When any message gets sent out over the internet, 
it gets broken up into little packets, and each packet may take a different route 
to its destination. Once all the pieces of the message arrive, the message is then 
delivered. If any of the pieces do not get there, it may never arrive. Or, it 
could all arrive at the destination in seconds. Also, keep in mind that any email 
adminstrator with free time can view your messages. (I once worked for a company 
that had a night computer operator who was not burdened by excessive ethics or 
demands on his time, and would spend long hours reading other peoples email. 
If he found something interesting, he might print it out and pass it around the 
office.) Keep in mind, too, that your message might get mis-directed or forwarded 
to people you dont know. All the more reason to never flame, spam or carry on 
confidential conversations via email. 

 Do not forward any message you receive without the permission of the author. Just a courtesy point, but a good one to follow. Once you ask their permission, 
theyll be more likely to ask yours. 

 Use Capital Letters sparingly. Messages in all-caps are meant to be 
screaming. If you mean to scream (ie: to flame...), then this is appropriate. 
However, if it isnt your intent, then be aware it may be interpreted as yelling 
and rude unless the intent is clearly not rude. Just use mixed case to avoid the 
problems. 

 The
 World Wide Web (or "WWW") - This is the most recently 
popular portion of the Internet. It supports graphics, audio, video, and the 
software we use to access it can be a front-end to virtually any application. 
The software that you would use is called a "web browser", some of which 
include Mosaic, Netscape, and Internet Explorer. Some City of Seattle web sites include: 

 The Public Access Network ("PAN") website: URL:

 http://www.pan.ci.seattle.wa.us 
or 
 http://www.cityofseattle.net/ 
 The City of Seattle Internal Website ("In-Web"): 
URL:

 http://inweb.ci.seattle.wa.us/ 

(This is only viewable if you are a City of Seattle employee reading this from your office computer.) 

There are so many resources on the internet which offer training on the 
Internet in general, and the World Wide Web in particular. I have links to some 
of those places on my personal website at this URL:

 http://www.eskimo.com/~drice/training.htm . This has links to all sorts of Frequently Asked 
 Questions (FAQ) lists on the WWW, and some resources like the librarys free classes on 
 internet-related topics. I encourage people often to go out and get a feel for the 
 potential of the WWW. It has an
 amazing future for programmers and publishers, for example. Instead of several different 
 pieces of application software running on a desktop PC, we can just write an application on 
 a web site and install one piece of software to access many applications. If we have a 
 brochure that reference other publications, and those publications are already published 
 on the web, we can just put in a hypertext link to that document right from the relevant 
 piece of text. Cool. Very, very cool. The potential is astounding. So is the impact to
 an organization's business processes. When we went to putting City job postings online,
 our personnel department went from receiving 10 or 20 resumes per job to hundreds, from 
 all over the world. Woo-hoo! 

 Telnet - A terminal emulator. This access method usually requires a login and 
password, and then what you see is the same as what you would see if you were physically 
present at the machine you are logged in to. It is an active connection. A couple of 
useful telnet sites are: 

 The Seattle Public Library:
 spl.lib.wa.us login using your library cue card number and choose the default VT100 terminal emulation whe you enter the library card catalogue. 
 The Public Access Network bbs:
 pan.ci.seattle.wa.us 
 The King County Library:
 king.kcls.lib.wa.us 

Whenever you get a telnet account, just be sure to look around for the usage guidelines.
Telnet site admins can get cranky, and it's pretty easy to look like a hacker to them by 
mistake. Look for a "Read Me" or a "Guideleines for Use" Heads up!

 TN3270 - This is also a terminal emulator, but for accessing IBM mainframe 
computers.

 Gopher - Information served up in menu format, not usually requiring a login 
and password. Each time you "surf" to a new machine, you get that machines 
menu of options they are offering you. 

 FTP - File Transfer Protocol - a method for moving files around between 
computers. The official City of Seattle Internet Acceptable Use Policy requires 
that all files downloaded be scanned for viruses. In the Police Department, our network 
administrators recommend that any file that you want to download that is over 1 Meg in size 
should be downloaded by ITS staff. We have experienced some problems with people 
FTPing huge files, running our 
server out of disk space and bringing the entire departments network down. Please dont 
break our hardware and interrupt everyones work. Please let us download files for you. 
Well put them in a safe place and check them for viruses. If youre asking yourself, 
"When would I ever want to do that?", its usually because someone calls a 
government agency looking for a publication. That agency might say, "Okay, send 
us a check for $20 and well ship it to you in six weeks and kill three trees to do it, 
or... do you have FTP access?" and you can say, "Yes I do!" Then you 
would get from the agency personnel:

 The FTP address (the machine name on the internet) 
 The login name and password for the site 
 The file path to the document 

And then you call the ITS helpdesk and ask for us to do this for you! No big deal! Cool? 

For those who receive FTP accounts to any machine, inside or outside the firewall, it is
very important to know the rules of that site. Look around when you log on for a "readme"
file, or some such thing. It can contain info on where to find the file you want, 
and how to avoid getting your account yanked for misconduct. 
FTP is the most common way that people get their files onto their websites, so if you get an 
FTP account for this purpose, it is important to know the criteria under which you are 
allowed to keep the account, and under what conditions it can be revoked. 
If you are doing any CGI or ASP programming, it is possible to break a web server with bad or
experimental code. In the City, we designate "webmasters" as people who have responsibility for
final testing and review of any page that goes out to a webserver, because it is a shared 
server and we want to protect our site and other departments'
material from damage. Please be careful. Once you start using CGI, ASP or even some kinds of 
javascripting, you are graduating to real programming, and you should be developing in a real
software development environment. Everything you code should be tested thoroughly on a machine
of the same type and configuration as the production web server you're porting to.

If you are using FTP to your ISP, be sure that you 
know information like your disk use limits, what sort of file management habits you are expected to 
use, and whether or not FTPing directly to your personal file space is even possible.
On many ISPs, it isn't, and users are expected to only use FTP between remote sites and 
their local hard drive. 

 What the internet is not: 

One point of confusion for a lot of new folks to the internet is what isnt on 
the internet. The Internet is
 not a commercial online service, like America Online, 
Compuserve, Prodigy, or the Microsoft Network. Those companies offer services online to 
people who have subscribed to their services, and then as an added bonus they have portals to 
the internet. Most of their services (like chat rooms, etc.) are not available 
to people on the Internet who are not subscribers to their particular service. 
They all have websites that are available to the public, but they also 
have subscriber-only services. They sometimes charge a fee per month, and then per-minute 
usage charges, and these could get extremely expensive. The fee structures in recent years have 
changed, and they are many and varied. They used to be, and can still be, 
the most expensive way to get Internet access. They can also be the most readily available, 
well-known to the general public, and easiest to use for non-geeks. Just keep in mind 
that our Internet access at the City of Seattle does not include subscriber services for 
these online services, so we do not have access to chat rooms or expert forums at AOL, Prodigy,
Compuserve, etc.. 

 What does my internet usage cost the city ? 

The citys internet connection is on at all times. We dont require modems at 
the PCs, and there are no per-minute usage fees. The city pays a flat fee to our Internet 
Service Provider (ISP) for our connection to it from the city-wide backbone network. 

 How can I get in trouble on the Internet? 

First, the fastest way to get in to trouble is to spam, flame, or do anything 
non-business-related on a usenet group. Again, remember that when you post anything on a 
usenet group, it will be seen by millions of people all over the world. Those people might 
be our taxpayers wondering why youre posting a recipe using government equipment. They 
might wonder why youre asking for nude pictures using your government account. They might 
do something about this. Read the Citys Internet Acceptable Use Policy when you get a chance. 
Its accessible on the In-Web site at: 

 http://inweb.ci.seattle.wa.us/dpac/iau5-2.htm 

Another way to get in trouble is to go out surfing sites that might create a hostile
 work environment. Remember that your computer is the property of the City and its use is 
 of interest to your co-workers. If you create a situation where you are looking at offensive 
 materials on your screen, and someone walks by and finds the material creates a hostile work 
 environment for them... Well, you get the picture... Also keep in mind that every time your 
 browser brings up certain kinds of picture files, it makes a copy of the file on your hard 
 drive, and your friendly local computer technician will probably find it when they are doing 
 maintenance, and be forced to do things they find unpleasant, like look at those pictures and 
 be grossed out, and like get your management involved in an issue. Let me just share that 
 your average friendly local computer technician

 hates this
 part of 
 their job. Ickplttplplthht! Please dont make them suffer. I speak for all of my 
 fellow geeks when I ask you to please use your machine for business use only. The geeks 
 dont want to be involved in management issues, honestly. If it were up to us, we would 
 have no more say in what happens with the machine than the quartermaster has to do with 
 what you write on a pad of paper that you purchase from them, or than Telephone Services 
 has to do with how many personal calls you make on duty. Honestly, its a management 
 issue how you spend your time. But, there are certain things that are different about 
 computers, and we hate that. Please dont make us do gross stuff, okay? If you find 
 yourself looking at something objectionable by mistake, quickly hit the "BACK" 
 button on your browser and get the heck outta there. Itll still be in your recent site 
 history on your browser, but your co-workers wont have to look at it when they walk in 
 to chat. And, you wont have to look at it if it was unintentional. Cool, huh? 
 (Ill say... ::whew::) 

Another way to get in trouble is to download files with viruses in them. 
This is mostly a problem for executables and Word documents, but its best to 
be careful of anything. Again, please put in a helpdesk call for FTP transfers 
of anything bigger than 1M. When in doubt, call us, okay? 

Again, be sure to check out that above-referenced training page on the In-Web, 
and enjoy using your new tools! 

Hope this helps! Happy happy joy joy! 

- Dana 

:-D 

 Dana Rice, Systems Analyst
 City of Seattle, WA, USA
 &copy; 1996, latest revision 7/2001 

 Back to top of this page 

 ELECTRONIC MAIL AND FILES
 USER RESPONSIBILITY

 The content and maintenance of a user's electronic mailbox is the users responsibility: 

 Check E-mail daily and remain within your limited disk quota.
 Delete unwanted messages immediately since they take up disk storage.
 Keep messages remaining in your electronic mailbox to a minimum.
 Mail messages can be downloaded or extracted to files then to disks for future reference.
 Never assume that your E-mail can be read by no one except yourself; others may be 
able to read or access your mail. Never send or keep anything that you would not mind seeing on 
 the evening news.

 The content and maintenance of a user's disk storage area is the users responsibility: 

 Keep files to a minimum. Files should be downloaded to your personal computer's hard 
drive or to disks.
 Routinely and frequently virus scan your system, especially when receiving or 
downloading files from other systems to prevent the spread of a virus.
 Your files may be accessible by persons with system privileges, so do not 
maintain anything private in your disk storage area.

 TELNET PROTOCOL

 Many telnetable services have documentation files available online (or via ftp). 
Download and review instructions locally as opposed to tying up ports trying to figure 
out the system.
 Be courteous to other users wishing to seek information or the institution might 
revoke Telnet access; remain only on the system long enough to get your information, 
then exit off of the system.
 Screen captured data or information should be downloaded to your personal computer's 
hard disk or to disks.

 ANONYMOUS FTP - FILE TRANSFER PROTOCOL

 Users should respond to the PASSWORD prompt with their E-mail address, so if that 
site chooses, it can track the level of FTP usage. If your E-mail address causes an error, 
enter GUEST for the next PASSWORD prompt.
 When possible limit downloads, especially large downloads (1 Meg+), for after normal 
business hours locally and for the remote ftp host; preferably late in the evening.
 Adhere to time restrictions as requested by archive sites. Think in terms of the 
current time at the site that's being visited, not of local time.
 Copy downloaded files to your personal computer hard drive or disks to remain 
within disk quota.
 When possible, inquiries to Archie should be in mail form.
 It's the user's responsibility when downloading programs, to check for copyright 
or licensing agreements. If the program is beneficial to your use, pay any authors 
registration fee. If there is any doubt, don't copy it; there have been many occasions 
on which copyrighted software has found its way into ftp archives. Support for any 
downloaded programs should be requested from the originator of the application. Remove 
 unwanted programs from your systems.

 ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS

 (E-mail, LISTSERV groups, Mailing lists, and Usenet) 

 Keep paragraphs and messages short and to the point.
 Focus on one subject per message.
 Be professional and careful what you say about others. E-mail is easily forwarded.
 Cite all quotes, references and sources.
 Limit line length and avoid control characters.
 Follow chain of command procedures for corresponding with superiors.
For example, don't send a complaint via E-mail directly to the "top" just because you can.
 Don't use the your employer's networks for commercial or proprietary work.
 Include your signature at the bottom of E-mail messages. Your signature footer 
 should include your name, position,
 affiliation and Internet and/or BITNET addresses and should
 not exceed more than 4 lines. Optional information could include your address and phone number.
 Capitalize words only to highlight an important point or to
 distinguish a title or heading. *Asterisks* surrounding a
 word also can be used to make a stronger point.
 Use discretion when forwarding mail to group addresses or
 distribution lists. It's preferable to reference the source
 of a document and provide instructions on how to obtain a copy.
 It is considered extremely rude to forward personal email to mailing lists or Usenet without the original author's permission.
 Be careful when using sarcasm and humor. Without face to face
 communications your joke may be viewed as criticism.
 Respect copyright and license agreements.
 When quoting another person, edit out whatever isn't directly
 applicable to your reply. Including the entire article will annoy those reading it.
 Abbreviate when possible:

Examples:

IMHO = in my humble/honest opinion

FYI = for your information

BTW = by the way

Flame = antagonistic criticism

:-) = happy face for humor

 LISTSERV AND MAILING LIST DISCUSSION GROUPS

Some mailing lists have low rates of traffic, others can flood your
mailbox with several hundred mail messages per day. Numerous incoming messages from various listservers or mailing lists by multiple users, requires extensive system processing which can tie up valuable resources. Subscription to Interest Groups or Discu
ssion Lists should be kept to a minimum and should not exceed what your disk quota can handle, or you for
that matter.

 Keep your questions and comments relevant to the focus of the discussion group.
 Resist the temptation to "flame" others on the list. Remember that these discussions are "public" and meant for constructive exchanges. Treat the others on the list as you would want them to treat you.
 When posting a question to the discussion group, request that
 responses be directed to you personally. Post a summary or answer to your question to the group.
 When replying to a message posted to a discussion group, check the address to be certain it's going to the intended location (person or group).
 When signing up for a group, save your subscription confirmation letter for reference.
 When going away for more than a week, unsubscribe or suspend mail from any mailing lists or LISTSERV services.
 If you can respond to someone else's question, do so through email. Twenty people answering the same question on a large list can fill your mailbox (and those of everyone else on the list) quickly.
 Use your own personal E-mail account, don't subscribe using a shared office account.
 Occassionaly subscribers to the list who are not familiar with proper netiquette will submit requests to SUBSCRIBE or UNSUBSCRIBE directly to the list itself. Be tolerant of this activity, and possibly provide some useful advice as opposed to bein
g critical.
 Other people on the list are not interested in your desire to be added or deleted. Any requests regarding administrative tasks such as being added or removed from a list should be made to the appropriate area, not the list itself. Mail for these t
ypes of requests should be sent to the following respectively:

LISTSERV GROUPS -
 LISTSERV@host 

MAILING LISTS -
 listname-REQUEST@host -or-
 listname-OWNER@host 

For either Mailing Lists or LISTSERV groups, to subscribe or unsubscribe, in the body of the message include:

 SUBSCRIBE listname yourfirstname yourlastname (To be added to the subscription)

-or-

 UNSUBSCRIBE listname (To be removed from the subscription)

-->

 The Ten Commandments of Computer Ethics 

 from the Computer Ethics Institute 

 1. Thou shalt not use a computer to harm other people.
 2. Thou shalt not interfere with other people's computer work.
 3. Thou shalt not snoop around in other people's files.
 4. Thou shalt not use a computer to steal.
 5. Thou shalt not use a computer to bear false witness.
 6. Thou shalt not use or copy software for which you have not paid.
 7. Thou shalt not use other people's computer resources without authorization.
 8. Thou shalt not appropriate other people's intellectual output.
 9. Thou shalt think about the social consequences of the program you write.
 10. Thou shalt use a computer in ways that show consideration and respect.

 Back to top of this page 

 BIBLIOGRAPHY

 Kehoe, Brendan P. "A Beginner's Guide to the Internet: Zen and the Art of the Internet", First Edition, January 1992.
 Shapiro, Norman, et al. "Towards an Ethics and Etiquette for Electronic Mail"., Santa Monica, CA: Rand Corporation (publication R-3283-NSF/RC), 1985.
 Von Rospach, Chuq. "A Primer on How to Work With the USENET Community"
 Horton, Mark, Spafford, Gene. "Rules of conduct on Usenet"
 "A Guide to Electronic Communication & Network Etiquette", revised and submitted by Joan Gargano, edited by Ivars Balkits, Computing services University of California Davis.
 "Heartland Free-Net Registered User Guidelines", Bradley University, Peoria, Il.
 "Terms and Conditions of Membership and Affiliation", CREN Information Center, October 25, 1990
 "Electronic Mail and Networks: New Tools for Institutional Research and Planning." by Dan Updegrove, John Muffo and Jack Dunn, University of Pennsylvania.
 "Exploring Internet Training Series, Module 1- Exploring Internet: Using your Computer to Communicate", by Deborah Shaffer, ES-USDA, CIT and Pennsylvania State University, Henry DeVries; Extension Electronic Technology Group, Cornell University;
 Gregory Parham, ES_USDA, CIT.
 "Exploring Internet Training Series, Module 2- Mail-based Information Delivery: Alamanac and Listservs". by Deborah Shaffer, ES-USDA, CIT and Pennsylavia State University; Henry DeVries, Extension Electronic Technology Group, Cornell University; Gre
gory Parham, ES_USDA, CIT.??

 -->

 Dana's Writing Collection 

 Dr. Ice's Home Page 

 Dr. Ice's WWW Search List 

 Top of This Page 

Email questions, comments or suggestions to: 
 drice@eskimo.com