Dr. Ice's Internet Search Engines Page 

 Dana's WWW Home 

 Dr.Ice's Home |

 SciFi |

 Computers |

 Web Devo |

 Legal Code | 

 Business 

 Theatre |

 WWW Search |

 Reading | 

 Seattle |

 Training |

 Hobbies 

 Dr. Ice's Internet Search Engines Page 

 How-to's of Internet Searching 

 Finding Stuff on the Web 
 A really cute beginner's tutorial at the BBC WebWise site.
 -->

 Finding Stuff on the Web 
 A really cute beginner's tutorial at the BBC WebWise site. 

 Guide to Choosing a Search Engine 
 You know how to search the web, you just need to know which engines to use for which 
 kind of content (by file type, search logic, database integrity, etc.). 
 From the University at Albany Library. 

 Getting Started: Choosing your Research Tool 
 This helps guide you to helpful search engines based on what kind of question 
 you are researching. From the University at Albany Library. 

 Tutorial on Searching the Web 
 For the beginner, or the person whose fave search engine has begun failing them 
 lately. From the University at Albany Library. 

 W3 Search Engines 
 Just a big list of hundreds of search engines and generally what you can use them for.

 The Seattle Times' Technology Section 
 Just a side benefit of living in the Land of the Geeks, this section of our local
 newspaper contains regular reviews of internet sites, including search engine reviews and
 in-depth articles on a variety of technological topics. I look to it when I'm sick
 of search engines and want to find things in sort of the opposite way. :-} Yes, its
 archive is searchable. 

 Dr. Ice's Top 23 Favourite Search Engines: 

 Listed in alphabetical order. :-}

 --> 

 Accufind 

 Claims to save time by having narrowing categories and 
 then running the search through a variety of engines appropriate to that category. 
 Simple, old-style interface (Dr. Ice means here that graphics designers will think
 it's cheesy, but people with old browsers or text readers may like it), 
 with a drop-down box to run your search through a 
 number of search engines, some of which I haven't seen anywhere else. 

 -->

 Alta Vista 

 Search the web by several methods, or peruse directories of web pages. "My Alta Vista" offers you the option of personalizing what you see when you visit the site. 

 Ask Jeeves 

 A novel concept, freeform questions and then an FAQ-formatted list of questions and answers. Very interesting. And an out-of-the-ordinary way to find web sites. Beware of the "frame" it sends with you wherever you go. 

 c|net's Search.com 

 Metasearches more than 800 specialized engines 
 from around the Web. Dr. Ice has pretty good luck finding things here, and the 
 interface is nice. A little too colourful for some days, but the layout is easy
 to navigate. 

 Dogpile 

 Comprehensive searches of all the major search engines. 

 Excite 

 Search engine and "channels"-style directory of the Internet. Comprehensive and relatively easy-to-use. Also offers personalization features so you can configure what you see when you go there. 

 Google 

 This is just a search engine that gives you a 
 list of sites. No directories, no other features. The only novelty is the 
 "I'm feeling lucky" button, which takes you directly to a page that matches 
 the search, without showing the results list first. Cute! 

 GoTo.com 

 Claims to be "Search Made Simple". 
 The interface sure is, just a search box and simple directory that all 
 fits on one screenful. 

 HotBot 

 Offers searches by text, date, medium (like, 
 whether or not it contains video) or language. Also has a web page directory 
 and resource driectory. 

 Infoseek 

 Search engine for web and other resources on the internet. Customizeable interface. Also offers translation of web pages that you find in other languages, online auctioning and MapQuest maps. 

 LookSmart 

 Website directory by categories, and search utility 
 of its web page database. On this list for web research purposes. Not the 
 best, not the worst. :-} 

 Lycos 

 Search engine and "Web Guides" categories. 
 Several search methods available. Plus, the customizable "My Lycos" interface.
 Dr. Ice _loves_ that part! A very cool concept! Personalized portal to all kinds
 of info, and links in to the My Calendar and My Palm sites. Mmmm-hmmm! 

 Magellan 

 Directory of "reviewed" sites with search capabilities. 
 Also links to Excite! Maps. 

 Metacrawler 

 Searches all the top search engines at once. Also lists 
 channels, online phone directories and other resources. 

 Microsoft All-In-One Search 

 This is where you go when you click on the "Search" 
 toolbar button in MS Internet Explorer. Can be VERY slow to load. 

 The Mining Company (aka About.com) 

 Another novel concept in internet searching. 
 Most search engines rely on web page makers registering their sites with them. 
 This one has "guides", people who review sites and list them. You can sign up 
 to be a guide and help build the resource. 

 NetFind at AOL 

 Dr. Ice be not a fan of AOL, but it doesn't hurt to 
 look absolutely everywhere when you're doing research. 

 Netscape NetSearch 

 Multiple search engine interface. 
 I kinda like this site for the ability to roll your search phrase from one 
 engine to the next. Currently offers Netscape, Ask Jeeves, Google, Overture, 
 Looksmart, Lycos and NBCi all in one interface. This is the page that you get 
 to when you hit the "Search" button on Netscape's toolbar. 

 Netscape Open Directory Project 

 A multiple-engine search utility, and a directory that 
 includes "expert reviews" of 2.5 million websites. You can become an editor/reviewer. 

 Northern Light 

 This site offers categories of search (including a 
 government search) of the web and its own info resources. Seems to be designed 
 for doing research for business and educational purposes. Results are sorted in 
 folders. Intriguing. 

 Public Access Network (PAN) Search 

 Dr. Ice's alter-ego is a government employee with the 
 City of Seattle, so this is the search of materials Dr. Ice works on,
 to check if those materials are being indexed properly. For you, this may be
 a handy entry point to the CityofSeattle.net website. "City Hall Without the 
 Traffic Jams", as the saying goes. 

 Snap.Com 

 This one's just on the list for the sake of 
 completeness. Not a favorite, as it often places soundex hits above actual 
 complete matches. How bizarre. 

 WebCrawler 

 Search engine and "channels"-style directory with 
 lots of features, including headline news 

 Yahoo! 

 Directory and search, probably the most used and 
 respected Internet directory. Also offers customizable options, Yahoo! Maps, 
 web page directories, online calendaring, online auctions, and more. 

Back to
 Dr. Ice's
 Home Page 

Dr. Ice's
 Web Devo Hotlist 

 Back to Top
 of This Page 

 Please send comments and questions to Dana Rice (aka Dr. Ice) at: 

 drice@eskimo.com 
 The URL of this web page is http://www.eskimo.com/~drice/search.html
 It was created in 1994, and was last updated in 2000. Suggestions are always welcome!

 This page has been archived in The Internet Archive since June, 1997.
 To see some of its previous incarnations, visit this site: 

 The Wayback Machine: Dr. Ice's Search Engine Hotlist