From "UNLESS PEACE COMES - A Scientific Forecase of New Weapons"
1968 Nigel Calder ed.   
Chapter: "Geophysical warefare, How to wreck the environment," by
GJF MacDonald, UCLA Asc. Director of the Institute of Geophysics and 
Planetary Physics

BRAIN WAVES ROUND THE WORLD?

At heights of forty to fifty kilometres above the Earth.s surface, 
substantial numbers of charged particles are found which make this part of 
the atmosphere, the ionosphere, a good conductor of electricity. The rocks 
and oceans are also more conducting than the lower atmosphere. Thus, we 
live in an insulating atmosphere between two spherical conducting shells 
or, as the radio engineer would put it, in an Earth-ionosphere cavity, or 
waveguide. Radio waves striking either conducting shell tend to be 
reflected back into the cavity, and this phenomenon is what makes 
conventional long-distance radio communication possible. Only recently, 
however, has there been any interest in natural electrical resonances 
within the Earth-ionosphere waveguide. Like any such cavity, the 
Earth-ionosphere waveguide will tend to sustain radio oscillation at 
certain frequencies in preference to others. These resonant frequencies 
are primarily determined by the size of the Earth and the speed of light, 
but the properties of the ionosphere modify them to a certain extent. The 
lowest resonances begin at about eight cycles per second, far below the 
frequencies ordinarily used for radio communication. Because of their long 
wavelength and small field strength, they are difficult to detect. 
Moreover, they die down quickly, within 1/16 second or so; in engineering 
terms, the cavity has a short time constant.

The natural resonant oscillations are excited by lightning strokes, 
cloud-to-ground strokes being a much more efficient source than horizontal 
cloud-to-cloud discharges. On the average, about 100 lightning strokes 
occur each second (primarily concentrated in the equatorial regions) so 
that normally about six lightning flashes are available to introduce 
energy before a particular oscillation dies down. A typical oscillation.s 
field strength is of the order of 0.3 millivolts per metre.

The power of the oscillations varies geographically. For example, for a 
source located on the equator in Brazil the maximum intensity of the 
oscillation is near the source and at the opposite side of the Earth 
(around Indonesia). The intensity is lower in intermediate regions and 
towards the poles.

One can imagine several ways in which to increase the intensity of such 
electrical oscillations. The number of lightning strokes per second could 
be enhanced by artificially increasing their original number. Substantial 
progress has been made in the understanding of the physics of lightning 
and of how it might be controlled. The natural oscillations are excited by 
randomly occurring strokes. The excitation of timed strokes would enhance 
the efficiency with which energy is injected into an oscillation. 
Furthermore, the time constant of the oscillation would be doubled by a 
four-fold increase in the electrical conductivity of the ionosphere, so 
that any scheme for enhancing that conductivity (for example, by injecting 
readily ionized vapour) lowers the energy losses and lengthens the time 
constant, which would permit a greater number of phased lightaing strokes 
before the decay of an oscillation.

The enhanced low-frequency electrical oscillations in the Earth-ionosphere 
cavity relate to possible weapons systems through a little understood 
aspect of brain physiology. Electrical activity in the brain is 
concentrated at certain frequencies, some of it extremely slow, a little 
around five cycles per second, and very conspicuous activity (the 
so-called alpha rhythm) around ten cycles per second. 

Some experiments have been done in the use of a flickering light to pull 
the brain.s alpha rhythm into unnatural synchrony with it; the visual 
stimulation leads to electrical stimulation. There has also been work on 
direct electrical driving of the brain. In experiments discussed by 
Norbert Wiener, a sheet of tin is suspended from the ceiling and connected 
to a generator working at ten cycles per second. With large field 
strengths of one or two volts per centimetre oscillating at the 
alpha-rhythm frequency, decidedly unpleasant sensations are noted by human 
subjects.

The Brain Research Institute of the University of California is 
investigating the effect of weak oscillating fields on human behaviour. 
The field strengths in these experiments are of the order of a few 
hundredths of a volt per centimetre. Subjects show small but measurable 
degradation in performance when exposed to oscillating fields for periods 
of up to fifteen minutes.

The field strengths in these experiments are still much stronger, by a 
factor of about 1,000, than the observed natural oscillations in the 
Earth-ionosphere cavity. However, as previously noted, the intensity of 
the natural fluctuations could bc increased substantially and in principle 
could be maintained for a long time, as tropical thunder storms are always 
available for manipulation. The proper geographical location of the source 
of lightning, coupled with accurately-timed, artificially-excited strokes, 
could lead to a pattern of oscillations that produced relatively high 
power levels over certain regions of the Earth and substantially lower 
levels over other regions. In this way, one could develop a system that 
would seriously impair brain performance in very large populations in 
selected regions over an extended period.

The scheme I have suggested is admittedly far-fetched, but I have used it 
to indicate the rather subtle connections between variations in man.s 
environmental conditions and his behaviour. Perturbation of the 
environment can produce changes in behaviour patterns. Since our 
understanding of both behavioural and environmental manipulation is 
rudimentary, schemes of behavioural alteration on the surface seem 
unrealistic. No matter how deeply disturbing the thought of using the 
environment to manipulate behaviour for national advantage is to some, the 
technology permitting such use will very probably develop within the next 
few decades.
