
              Seth on Sound, The Great Pyramid, Sumeria and UFOs
                                       
   Barry Carter ( bcarter@igc.apc.org )
   Thu, 22 Oct 1998 19:45:13 -0700
   
     * Messages sorted by: [ date ][ thread ][ subject ][ author ]
     * Previous message: RON BRENNEN: "Re: Literally Throwing Sound"
     * Next message: Barry Carter: "Sound Breakthrough"
       
   Dear Friends,
   
   Due to popular demand here is:
   
   Unpublished Seth on Sound and Great Pyramid
   
   604th Session January 12, 1972 9:19 p.m. Wednesday
   
   (Notes on an abortive projection attempt; I lay down for a nap after
   supper
   on Friday evening, Jan 14. I used the bedroom in apartment four. We
   had
   been working long hours on our own, and I had been putting in overtime
   at
   Artistic, so I was quite tired. I dozed for a few moments upon laying
   down, then came awake to find myself with the unmistakable feeling of
   floating halfway to the ceiling of the bedroom.)
   
   (The sensation was quite definite, and quiet strange. For I still felt
   my
   body against the bed - I lay face up, covered by a blanket - as though
   my
   body was pasted to the bed. In other words, I floated in the air, bed
   and
   all, quite pleasantly. There was no fear or panic. Instead I hoped to
   continue the experience into something greater.)
   
   (Shortly after I became aware, Jane began to do the dishes. The
   geography
   of our kitchen in apartment four is such that noise can evidently seep
   through a closet wall in the bedroom and so is quite easily heard.
   Jane
   made noise handling the dishes, I heard the water run, etc. In
   addition
   she turned on her radio. Even though she kept it on low volume, I
   heard
   it. I told myself these things would not distract me. I lay without
   moving a muscle, trying to encourage further developments without
   straining. The floating free sensation continued but I wasnt able to
   develop it further.)
   
   (I nearly always use suggestions re projection when I lay down. I
   believe
   my tiredness tonight helped the state. Now I sent Jane messages that
   she
   would leave me undistracted, but nothing developed. The feeling lasted
   for
   well over a minute, I would estimate; finally it began to diminish or
   fade
   out, and I fell asleep again. Upon writing this, I now recall that
   immediately upon laying down I drifted into a rather complete, if
   brief,
   dreaming state - but I cannot recall the dream. But I went form the
   dream
   into the projection.)
   
   (Peculiarly, I had no feeling of being detached from my physical body
   -
   that is, I didnt feel I was bodiless, hovering above it; I had taken
   the
   bed up with me, you see. I felt the bed and I were several feet above
   the
   floor. I wanted to try turning over astrally, and I wanted to try
   reaching
   up toward the ceiling astrally, to see if I could touch it. I didnt
   move
   at all, though, because of the noise form the kitchen. I managed to
   hold
   the state while considering the kitchen interference, but was
   concerned
   lest any attempt at movement on my part would break the spell
   entirely.)
   
   (The session this evening, Wednesday, developed rather spontaneously
   out of
   several factors that combined almost effortlessly. The recent Sumari
   developments involving both of us played a part. So did my studying of
   photos of Baalbek, the first century AD Roman ruins in Lebanon. The
   enormity of the stones in these buildings left me amazed; I didnt see
   how
   blocks weighing 1200 tons could be moved without machinery, let alone
   fitted into place over twenty feet up on foundations, etc. The
   pictures
   were truly awe-inspiring. I came across them in one of the books on
   ancient history that Shirley Bickford, one of Jane's students, brought
   for
   us to consult on the very ancient civilization, Sumeria, in
   Mesopotamia,
   from 4000 to 2000 BC, I believe without consulting dates.)
   
   (Jane and I hadnt believed there was any connection between Janes
   Sumarian development, and Sumer, since the Sumari, as explained in
   recent
   sessions, had never been physical in our terms. Tonights session went
   into
   this, to our surprise.)
   
   (Shortly after supper this evening, Tom Milligan, a former student of
   Janes brought us a copy of Saga Magazine for Dec. 71. It contained an
   article by our friend Otto Binder, entitled &quotUFO's Own Earth and
   All
   Mankind!" This article touched upon many ideas we are interested in,
   and
   quoted astrophysicist Fred Hoyle, among others, re the ownership of
   the
   race idea. We spend some time discussing it. We had no opinion
   particularly, beyond remembering that according to Seth the whole
   question
   of the race of man and its origins, and doubts concerning theories of
   evolution, was vastly more complicated than was generally believed.
   Seths
   ideas of time give us quite a different approach to these ideas also.)
   
   (In the NY Times tonight I read an article, with pictures, of the Mars
   probe currently underway by our Mariner spacecraft. Dr. Carl Sagan of
   Cornell University was quoted in the article. Dr. Sagan was also
   quoted in
   Ottos article, regarding the ancient Sumerian - Akkadian legends and
   UFOs, too our surprise. The question that has always bothered me is
   brought up - why does our history only go back five or 6000 years ago,
   when
   Homo Sapiens appeared some 50 000 years ago as an established
   species?)
   
   (In addition, I have always doubted the block and tackle idea used in
   constructing such massive, enormous wonders as Baalbek. With this goes
   my
   questions concerning the ability of sculptors to do the marvelously
   intricate carving adorning all of these buildings, on such an enormous
   scale. I have always wondered just how it was possible, with the few
   tools
   then available, according to our history, to do this work. It seems
   beyond
   the tools scope. I would delight in seeing it duplicated today, using
   identical stone, tools, etc., with time trials.)
   
   (Thus, all of these points came together tonight and resulted in the
   session. In the beginning Janes pace was rather slow, her eyes closed
   often. The session was held in her study in apartment four.)
   
   Seth: &quotNow good evening."
   
   Rob: &quotGood evening, Seth.""
   
   Seth: &quotThe message for tonight is: you are not owned.
   
   &quotNow, your human stock did not all originate solely from your
   planet. I
   never told you that it did. In that respect your ancestry is indeed
   varied. Some of the information given in my own book, by inference,
   should
   have made that clean."
   
   (By coincidence - Seths book has just come back to us from Prentice
   Hall
   for us to go over the copy editors suggestions before it is set in
   galleys, which we will see in April. But we havent had time to reread
   the
   manuscript.)
   
   Seth: &quotEvolution, as it is thought of, had many different aspects
   in those
   terms. There were three or four beginning points. Do you follow me?"
   
   Rob: &quotYes."
   
   Seth: &quotThere were then visits from others in other planetary
   systems. In
   that regard this is quite natural. Your own relative isolation is far
   from
   the average. The legends, many of them, therefore, were of course
   chronicles of quite legitimate physical events, describing phenomena
   for
   example for which natives had no adequate vocabulary. They were forced
   to
   describe what they saw by making comparisons with objects and events
   already familiar to them."
   
   (Janes pace, as Seth, was now quite a bit faster.) &quotSome such
   visitors,
   in your terms, were more evolved than others. All, however, would
   appear
   as superhuman in contrast to those civilizations that encountered
   them.
   There were some deliberate experiments, that were in fact far more
   dangerous to the experimenters, always in which the experimenters
   tried, in
   one way or another, tired to advance mans knowledge.
   
   (9:29) &quotIt is not nearly as simple as that, however. There is not
   a
   one-line development. By the time that feasible inter-system space
   travel
   is practical, the psychic abilities are developed to a very high
   degree.
   One is necessary for the other. Therefore, it became much more
   feasible to
   approach earthmen during their dream state, when their natural fear
   reactions were somewhat minimized, and where the danger to the
   visitors was
   far less."
   
   (It was so hot in the room that I asked Seth to wait while I turned
   the
   heat off. I also opened a kitchen window. Jane sat quietly in trance.)
   
   Seth: &quotOut of body encounters were used as a matter of course. The
   visitor could appear and disappear then without fear of pursuit.
   Civilizations were often warned in advance of natural disasters that
   were
   apparent to the visitors with their greater viewpoint.
   
   &quotSuch warnings were either given in the dream state of the
   earthmen, for
   the reasons given or often in some secluded place, for often the
   visitors
   would be attacked. During these eras, in your terms, the speakers
   often
   acted as go-betweens. Often warnings of disaster were not followed.
   Some
   warnings were misunderstood, then, as punishment by the gods of moral
   misdoing.
   
   (9:36) &quotThe whole moral code idea was originally tailored for the
   current
   scene as it was encountered, told in terms that the natives could
   understand.
   
   &quotThe pyramids, the huge boulders etched out (I think Seth refers
   here to
   Baalbek; I didnt interrupt to ask.) All of this was done in one way or
   another through the use of, a knowledge of, both coordination points
   in
   space (described by Seth in his own book) and the use of sound. (Also
   described to some degree.) There were instruments that released sound,
   and
   directed it in the same way, say, that a laser beam does with light.
   
   &quotDrawings of some of these exist in primitive Sumerian cave
   renditions, but
   the drawings are misinterpreted, the instrument is taken for another.
   No
   one knows how to use the instruments. There are a few in existence, in
   your terms."
   
   (The Sumerians were a pre-Semitic race inhabiting the lower Euphrates
   valley; their empire dated from about the 4th millennium BC. They were
   probably the Biblical Shinar. Their country was called Sumer, etc.)
   
   Seth: &quotThe Sumarians (spelled) left the memory of their existence
   in the
   Sumerian culture (spelled. This is the connection Jane and I hadnt
   believed existed.) They initiated it, though they did not direct all
   of
   its activities, nor were they responsible for the distortions of their
   teachings that often resulted. There is a difference then between
   Sumarian
   and the culture in the books. Your Sumarian were behind the culture -
   they
   initiated that particular civilization.
   
   &quotI will be clear. Your Sumarian showed earth people at that time
   how to
   communicate, how to initiate crafts, gave them all the fundamentals
   upon
   which a civilization then could be based. The Sumarians, you Sumarians
   however, were not of human stock at that time.
   
   &quotNow. Your Sumarians have become human stock in those terms at
   other
   times. it is not a point of them trying to invade a native stock. They
   simply understood the nature of individual existences. Therefore, they
   are
   able to choose from various physical systems those in which they would
   like
   to have experience.
   
   &quotThey maintain their inner knowledge and integrity, and are born
   within any
   given system. They always use their native abilities and talents to
   help
   the system, working very strongly in psychic or creative endeavors.
   
   &quotI do not necessarily mean that they are consciously aware of
   their
   affiliation. This is an individual matter. They are often inventors,
   always then involved with the initiation of new ideas or discoveries.
   All
   of this follows inner patterns that are specifically human in your
   terms.
   Humanity therefore has its own characteristics, and no outside
   influence
   can go counter to these, but must work with them.
   
   (9:50) &quotWhen it seems that great discoveries come, and then are
   lost
   through the ages, perhaps to be rediscovered, it simply means that
   mans
   own nature was not in harmony with them, could not use them properly.
   Whenever aggressiveness became too misguided it automatically caused
   the
   loss of powers or discoveries that could be used to destroy the
   planet.
   
   &quotThis is a natural aspect, the self-protective principle that
   operates
   within earth life as you know it. On occasion discoveries were given
   before their time, and promptly lost, only to be rediscovered ages
   later.
   
   &quotThe problem comes when you try to categorize consciousness or
   being. The
   out of body state, in greater terms, is a far more natural state than
   in
   the body. You adopt and make a body. You do this now without even
   knowing
   that you do so, but a body can be made from the camouflage of any
   system,
   constructed easily when you know how to do it.
   
   &quotSpace suits are, therefore, and inadequate, clumsy memory of an
   inner
   ability to clothe the inner self with whatever camouflage is at hand,
   to
   merge with the elements of an environment in such a way that you
   become a
   living part of it.
   
   &quotThe Sumarians - Your Sumerians (spelled) did this when they
   initiated
   the culture spoken about in your books. Their sense of time is
   completely
   different, as however your own is innately. It is difficult to explain
   this, but keeping in touch with a civilization for several thousand
   years
   of your earth time, would entail perhaps the same amount of time and
   effort
   a man might take in his profession over a period of five to ten years,
   so
   the relativity of time is important in that context.
   
   &quotYou may take your break."
   
   (10:01 - Janes pace had been good, her trance good also. I had trouble
   in
   some instances deciding in the copy which spelling to use - Sumerian
   or
   Sumarian; in some instances my quick decisions were in error, I cam to
   believe as I typed up this copy, so as can be seen I made changes.
   Jane
   read them over, and agrees that this copy is now as Seth meant it to
   be.)
   
   (I told Jane at bread that I needed a capsule definition of Sumari and
   she
   said that last night in ESP class Seth had commented that the Sumari
   was a
   &quotfederation of consciousness." We get the duplicated transcript of
   each
   ESP class the following week, so we do not have the record for last
   nights
   ESP class session, for 1/11, yet.)
   
   (During break I referred again to the photos of the massive ruins of
   Baalbek in one of the books Shirley Bickford lent us. I explained to
   Jane
   my feeling that the amazingly intricate stone carving, particularly
   the
   bas-relief work, seemed beyond the abilities of the hammer and chisel.
   Jane broke in to tell me that this carving was done by small
   instruments
   that used inaudible sound waves: these radiations softened the stone,
   she
   said, so the work could be performed. She didnt know where this data
   came
   from. If from Seth it wasnt obvious to her.)
   
   (Resume at 10:20)
   
   Seth: &quotNow - Are you ready for me?
   
   Rob: &quotYes."
   
   Seth: &quotBasically - in your terms now - there is no such thing as
   an
   isolated, independent earth stock, in that consciousness did not
   suddenly
   erupt from the physical behavior or characteristics of your planet, or
   in
   any other.
   
   &quotAs you know, consciousness comes first, and then forms the
   physical
   materializations of it. Those consciousnesses who picked physical
   materialization choose to operate under certain conditions that then
   appear
   as the natural characteristics of a species to you.
   
   &quotThey accept certain characteristics, and while experiencing
   existence
   within them must follow along the roads theyve chosen. Hence earlier I
   spoke of the natural bent of humanity, of all those, then, who choose
   existence within you particular planetary existence.
   
   &quotConsciousness is not local, and it never was.
   
   &quotYou have always been Sumari. This simply means that your
   consciousness has
   certain bents of its own, interests and abilities and specializations.
   The
   word Sumari characterizes a certain kind of consciousness simply for
   means
   of identification in your terms.
   
   &quotI told you once that there are clumps of consciousness. This does
   not
   mean that consciousness is not individual and separate, but that it
   also
   has a great ability to congregate, to reach out in affiliation, to
   share
   knowledge and experience, and to combine itself in ever-changing
   patterns
   while still retaining its basic identity and integrity.
   
   (10:29) &quotTo have explained this to you when we began our sessions
   would
   not have been possible. (Pause.) Now give us a moment. (Long pause.)
   
   &quotSpace and time are constructions of ideas. They do not appear
   physically,
   as say a table or a chair, yet they seem to define both a table and a
   chair, in that you cannot easily conceive of a piece of furniture, for
   example, existing except in the medium of space and time.
   
   &quotThe ideas of space and time are constructed in different ways in
   various
   systems. In some they appear as natural phenomena, for example as
   various
   classifications of objects, in some as variations of sound or light.
   You
   find it exceedingly difficult to consider existence at all without
   space
   and time, yet basically consciousness is independent of both.
   
   &quotThe ideas of space and time emerge only when consciousness adopts
   camouflage, only when it becomes wedded, in other words, with a
   physical
   type existence. Time and space are both creations of consciousness, in
   other words, and vehicles of its expression.
   
   &quotMatter is a classification. As explained in my book, various
   levels of
   concentration can be used as platforms leading you out of focus, into
   other
   time schemes. Time is like color. You are merely focusing upon one
   hue.
   (10:39)
   
   &quotYour present civilization and the old Sumerian (spelled)
   civilization,
   exist at once, then simultaneously, but to speak to you about these I
   must
   use a time sequence you understand. If it were understood that these
   civilizations exist at once, then you would not be so surprised that
   they
   were able to build structures that you cannot build in your now.
   
   &quotYour now and their now exists now.
   
   &quotIn the present physical area in which it seems to you that a
   physical
   civilization once existed, that civilization still exists. You cannot
   meet
   it though you stand at the same spot, because of the ideas of time
   that
   separate you. The civilization in flower, and the ruins, coexist. The
   living ancient Sumerians pass the modern tourists without seeing them,
   even
   as the tourists walk in the middle of the old Sumerian marked places
   and
   see only ruins.
   
   &quotMuch of this could be explained n mathematical equations that
   presently
   escape you. Your own consciousness is contemporary with the ancient
   Sumerians (spelled) as well as with your current selves in your terms.
   
   (10:46) &quotThink of countries existing simultaneously now on your
   planet.
   There are differences in language and culture, and it takes a certain
   amount of earth time to travel through space to visit them. In the
   same
   way all times exist at once, with their peculiar customs, and in your
   terms
   within the same space that you know.
   
   &quotYou have learned how to make roads through space, but not through
   time on
   a conscious level. There are intersections n time and space, however,
   that
   you have not recognized. I am speaking in your terms, hopefully to
   make
   this simpler. (Pause.) Times exist then as surely as places. You think
   of time as moving toward something, and of space as relatively stable.
   
   &quotIt does not occur to you then that you can get to times, as you
   can get to
   places. (Pause at 10:53.) All of this is highly difficult to explain.
   I do not mean for example that time, each moment, is a finished and
   done
   thing to be visited. While time is not moving in a particular
   direction,
   in your terms, each moment explodes outwards, or expands outward in
   all
   directions.
   
   &quotSpace and time as you understand them ripple through each other.
   They do
   not behave as you think they do, however. Presently you understand
   your
   existence only as it intrudes into three dimensions. Its own activity
   is
   in many other dimensions however.
   
   &quotThe Sumari, therefore, appear in or intrude into the three
   dimensional
   system from other dimensions.
   
   &quotNow you may take a break or end the session as you prefer."
   
   Rob: &quotWell take the break."
   
   (10:58. Janes trance had again been very good. Now she talked more
   about
   what she had said at last break, concerning the carving done on stone
   that
   had been softened by instruments employing sound. Only a very
   sophisticated instrument was used, she said, to soften the top layer
   of the
   stone so that it was &quotlike frosting which could then be easily
   carved. The
   instrument might have done both the softening and the carving.")
   
   (But first of all," she added as we continued to talk, &quoteither
   that
   instrument or another one was used to isolate the top layer of the
   stone
   from the rest of it so that it wasnt weakened." We had been discussing
   the very intricate and extensive bas-relief carving pictured on the
   door
   frames and lintels of the ruins at Baalbek in this instance - not, say
   the
   in-the-round carving shown on columns, etc.)
   
   (Ack-a-sond-a. This is my phonetic interpretation of a word Jane got
   regarding the instrument in question, whether from Seth or not she
   didnt
   know, as at last break. The sound wasnt audible to human ears. The
   instrument &quotsort of looked like - I cant really do it - the shape
   Im
   getting is of a very rough pistol shape...All you had to do was aim
   it.
   That was just for the small stuff.")
   
   (Resume at 11:15)
   
   Seth: &quotNow. Matter was manipulated through sound. Some remnants of
   spaceships became temples. Some visitors were seen to die, and later
   seen
   again recovered, hence the Egyptians sureness that the individual
   survived
   death.
   
   &quotBecause of space travel a visitor might come as a young man, and
   return
   some 40 earth years later still appearing as a young man, leading to
   the
   idea of immortality and eternal youth of the gods."
   
   (Such effects would grow out of the operation of Einsteins relativity
   postulates, etc.)
   
   Seth: &quotThe Olympic gods were perhaps the most amusing of mans
   attempt to
   deify space travelers. Mixed in here strongly were the ideas of gods
   mating with earth women. (Pause.)
   
   &quotIn some respects the over enthusiastic use of the sound was
   responsible
   for the flood mentioned in the Bible, and other literature. It was for
   this reason that many attempts were made to warn against the impending
   disaster. The use of sound was important at various times in
   irrigating
   dry areas, quite literally by pulling water from a distance.
   
   (11:22) &quotThere were several characteristics that proved difficult,
   however. Literally, the sound traveled further often than was
   intended,
   causing consequences not planned upon. Great finesse was important.
   Sound
   was also used after irrigation to speed up the flowering of plants,
   and to
   facilitate transplantation to other areas. it was also utilized for
   medicinal purposes in operations, particularly in bone and brain
   operations.
   
   &quotVerbal sounds were often stereotyped simply because the effect of
   sound
   was understood in its effects upon the body. Many ideas that are
   considered superstitious had a quite legitimate basis, therefore.
   Sound
   was used to locate one also, and to break someone down. It was also
   used
   to locate gas pockets.
   
   &quotThis is a difficult subject. For the movement of heavy tons of
   rock for
   example different techniques, using sound and precise mathematical
   calculations were necessary. Many civilizations grew and flourished in
   fertile areas simply because the people knew how to make them fertile
   and
   to keep them that way.
   
   &quotNow you had better end the session. My heartiest regards to you
   both."
   
   Rob: &quotThank you very much, Seth. Its been extremely interesting.
   Good
   night."
   
   (11:32. Both of us were quite tired. There was much more data
   available,
   we knew, but we were to weary to get it.)
   
   Robs Notes:
   
   I read the 604th Session to ESP class on Tuesday, January 7, 1975.
   After
   Id read some pages, George Rhodes held up a drawing hed made of the
   ankh
   and asked Seth - who had come through - - if the sound instrument was
   the
   ankh, or at least shaped like it. Like a pistol if held sideways. The
   &quotbarrel" would emit the sound ray and the mechanisms and controls
   would be
   in the short arms.
   
   Seth told George he was quite right. The passage will be included in
   the
   class transcript for 1/7/75 that well get next Tuesday, and Ill try to
   remember to attach a copy of it to this session.
   
   ankh (angk), n. (Egypt. ankh life, prosperity.) A T-shaped cross
   surmounted by a loop, used as a sacred emblem, symbolizing life; -
   called
   also crux ansata.
   
   I have no scanner, but what follows is a drawing of a perfect,
   sideways T
   with a sort of loop after the top part of a T that is standing up.
   That
   is, draw a T, go to the middle where both lines meet, and draw a loop
   from
   that point upward to meet back at the starting, and then lie the T on
   its
   side. The arms of this instrument were the top part of the T, before
   the
   loop (where Christs arms were...sorry) and the barrel was the bottom
   part
   of the T.
   
   605th Session January 17, 1972 9:24pm, Monday
   
   (At 9:20 p.m. Jane said she &quotfelt Seth around. I get a word or two
   in my
   head, so I know hes here." We had just finished a snack. Jane had read
   the last session while she ate. Her pace was quite slow to begin.)
   
   Seth: &quotGood evening."
   
   Rob: &quotGood evening, Seth."
   
   Seth: &quotNow. There are bleedthroughs, however, in space and time as
   you
   think of them. Remember, all times are simultaneous.
   
   &quotIdeas are not dependent upon preexisting ideas. It is not true to
   say
   that man cannot conceive of something that is not already presented to
   his
   experience in one way or another. Ideas are free of space and time.
   Only
   your determined focus upon your time conceptions closes you off from
   many
   ideas that otherwise are available.
   
   &quotIn your terms the bleedthrough can occur in both past and
   present, and
   idea from today bleeding into the past or the other way around. The
   ideas
   will be actualized or put into a practical structure according to your
   attitude toward them.
   
   &quotSome of the most sophisticated art is from the past.
   Bleedthroughs result
   in its being picked up in your present. Theoretically all of the
   information of so -called lost civilizations is quite available to
   you, as
   yours is to them. A closed mind will perceive none of this.
   
   &quotIn terms of experience humanity is working out its problems and
   challenges
   in 20th century terms and in the old Sumerian (spelled) civilization.
   You
   simply choose various kinds of organizational structures and different
   root
   assumptions - all however within the general root assumptions used for
   physical existence.
   
   (Pause at 9:35 one of many.) &quotThe old Sumerians (spelled) are
   singing
   their chants now at the same time that Ruburt is trying to translate
   them
   now in your terms. I wish I could impress upon you this great
   transparency
   of time so that you could experience its dimensions. In one way of
   speaking you have &quotnot yet" developed the proficiency with sound
   that would
   now allow for the building of structures such as those we described in
   the
   last session.
   
   (Those at Baalbek; the Pyramids, etc.) &quotYet those structures exist
   even
   in your now, bleedthrough to make you think and, in other terms, to
   make
   you remember. Many physical structures have existed in your terms in
   the
   same space now occupied by your apartment house. Because of your root
   assumptions, however, it is not possible for you to perceive these,
   nor
   those that will come after. Yet those structures exist as validly as
   the
   apartment house.
   
   &quotThey share certain coordinates. Knowing those coordinates would,
   of
   course, be very important., but the other realities would still remain
   nonrealities to you unless you changed your primary focus. When you do
   that there is no need to know what the coordinates are. The inner self
   is
   quite aware of all of this. It picks and chooses the information and
   data
   that is important to you, and makes it available according to your
   desires.
   
   (9:42) &quotIf you are greatly interested for example in history, then
   the
   inner self brings you the information you need from all of its
   sources.
   Under certain conditions you maybe propelled through the coordinates
   and
   find yourself in the era in which you are interested.
   
   &quotThe conscious intent, however, directs the kind of material you
   receive.
   If you have no interest in such things, no phenomena will occur strong
   enough to impress you in the waking state. If is very possible then to
   be
   building a civilization that, in your terms, you are now studying, to
   be
   interpreting ancient records that you yourself may have written, to be
   digging up roads that you yourself built.
   
   (9:47) &quotThis applies to your own historical time as well as to
   others. At
   other layer, of course, your civilization is already in the past, as
   in
   others your civilization does not yet exist. The bleedthroughs,
   however,
   mean that each people according to their characteristics, interests
   and
   activities, attract certain ideas both from the future and the past,
   and
   there is constant interaction. Because of this even the past as you
   think
   of it, as I told you, is never done and completed, but constantly
   changed
   by your present and future.
   
   (Long pause from 9:49 to 9:50) &quotNabene, then, is changed by your
   present
   actions, even as you are by his seemingly past ones. Your friend, Sue,
   said that thee is free action across the board in such cases, and that
   is
   an apt description.
   
   &quotThe pyramids exist as other than physical matter, but it is only
   as
   physical matter that you perceive them. There are several important
   issues
   connected with the pyramids that are not as yet understood. The
   symbols
   upon them often were meant to be sounded. The sound setting up
   reverberations. Some of these would automatically open up many doors,
   leading to as yet undiscovered secrets - but only for those who
   understood
   the use of sound.
   
   &quotThe Egyptians then were also helped, and told how to construct
   the pyramids.
   
   &quotNow you may take your break."
   
   (9:52 Janes pace had been slow for the most part, and she said she
   knew
   it. Usually she isnt aware of her pace, the passage of time, etc.)
   
   (Nabene is the name for a personality of mine that presumably lived as
   a
   male in the first century AD in Jerusalem. We know little about that
   life:
   one evening with Sue Watkins, she also lived then, I managed to tune
   into
   that existence to some degree via images. Seth has referred to Nabene
   a
   few times, and my role as a record keeper and teacher. Sue was one of
   my
   pupils. I was quite a taskmaster, Im told. Jane and I would like to
   hold
   a session to learn more about this life, including who else we know
   was
   involved then, etc.)
   
   (10:10 Jane said &quotIm just sitting here waiting. The connection
   doesnt
   seem as good tonight.")
   
   (&quotI was wondering if you wanted to bother continuing," I said.)
   
   (I do. It just doesnt seem as strong..." We continued to wait. At
   10:15: &quotI had the feeling at break," Jane said, &quotthat Seth has
   gone away,
   rather than staying close like he usually does - as though hed left to
   gather information or something. Im perfectly willing to continue the
   session, though.")
   
   (Then: &quotI did get a line just now," she said. &quotSomething about
   how they
   prepared the air first, for the construction of the pyramid...Now Im
   getting the feeling of an awful lot of people, chanting - thousands of
   them
   - this still has to do with the pyramids.")
   
   (Its a real funny feeling, as though the sound could break through
   into
   the living room," Jane said. I said I thought I understood what Seth
   was
   doing: in light of the material wed been getting, he was giving Jane
   the
   experience of that ancient time and our present time, showing that
   both are
   simultaneous. This experience would tie in nicely with the material.)
   
   (I feel that a whole mass of people would visualize a pyramid in their
   imagination," Jane said, &quotthen through their chanting, the use of
   certain
   vowels and pitches, they actually changed the air where that building
   was
   going to be. They made a boundary in the air," she said making angular
   gestures, &quota cohesiveness, for this imaginary structure. Then they
   had
   certain kinds of tuning forks, then some kind of instrument. The noise
   of
   the chant was like something that youd use to turn on this instrument
   -
   when the chant got to a certain pitch it turned on this instrument,
   and it
   somehow intensified and focused sound to what we would call an
   incredible
   energy degree - broke it down and then focused it in certain
   directions.:)
   
   (&quotYou could move very heavy objects with it. The objects were
   levitated -
   raised up in the air, no matter how heavy. They only needed to be
   guided
   by people to some degree. Many men were used to guiding them but not
   to
   lift or carry them. The sound instrument had a fantastic cohesive
   effect
   that bound atoms and molecules together.")
   
   (10:25 &quotAnd beside that the instruments also set up some kind of
   extra
   charge that we dont understand yet, around objects that were so
   constructed, like the pyramids," Jane continued. She was speaking
   faster
   now than she had in the session. &quotDoors and passageways inside the
   pyramids will open through the correct sound messages and signals, and
   were
   designed only to open if those correct signals were given.")
   
   (This sounds really weird. There are also invisible pyramids - we just
   cant see them." I could tell that Jane didnt know what to make of this
   data; she was even hesitant at telling me. &quotThese pyramids were
   constructed
   in such a way that they reflect everything else, so that when you look
   at
   them you dont see them as objects. Wait, Im not getting this
   right...theyre perfect camouflages of wherever they are, but certain
   sound
   pitches would make them visible.")
   
   (&quotThere are some invisible rooms like that inside the regular
   pyramids, too.")
   
   (Pause at 10:30. &quotThese are structures engineered on our earth
   extremely
   cleverly. Sound patterns would physically materialize them, but if
   these
   patterns arent given then the structures are just out of the range of
   what
   wed normally (call?) physical. Theyre complete, see, if this pattern
   is
   given or spoken.")
   
   (Jane said, &quotIts as though theyre frozen - this isnt a good word -
   at a
   certain stage until these patterns are given." (Pause.) &quotAll
   objects have
   their own sound patterns that help form their structure as much as the
   atoms and molecules do...")
   
   (Break at 10:35. &quotI wanted to take a break, Jane said. &quotI
   never heard of
   anything like that. It sounded so crazy I didnt even want to say it,
   about the invisible pyramids...The chanting was over here." She
   gestured
   to her left as she sat in her rocker; we were holding the session in
   her
   study in apartment four again. Janes gestures thus indicated the large
   open center area of the room, as though she was reaching over a wall
   almost. &quotI got some of the chants, but I couldnt quite carry it
   through.
   Seth didnt tell me anything like this was going to happen.")
   
   (At 10:43 &quotIm just waiting to see what happens next. This isnt
   terribly
   strong, but I have the feeling of a barrier over there," and again
   Jane
   gestured to her left. &quotthat I cant get over. But all this stuff
   comes
   from over there. Something about these instruments making atoms and
   molecules denser, somehow - doing different things with them...")
   
   (Then Seth returned at 10:45:) &quotNow. The information Ruburt gave
   is
   substantially correct."
   
   &quotYou know that sound has an effect upon living things. It can help
   mend
   bone. It can also be used, however, to reinforce structures. We are in
   the preliminary stages with the Sumari language - hopefully leading to
   some
   understanding of the nature of sound, though (humorously) you may not
   yet
   be able to build a pyramid in your back yard."
   
   Rob: &quotI understand."
   
   Seth: &quotNow I would like you to close your eyes, or leave them open
   if you
   prefer. Let various inner sounds, memories of sounds, enter your
   consciousness, that may or may not be familiar to you. Try to think of
   the
   sounds of images, think specifically of pyramids and see what sounds
   come
   to you."
   
   (10:50 While Seth was talking I kept writing, of course, in order to
   get
   the material for future reference. Finally I sat quietly. Jane was
   already doing so, her eyes shut; I didnt know whether Seth had left
   again
   or not. My own eyes closed and I let myself drift.)
   
   (In a few moments I seemed to visualize a pyramid shape that was based
   on
   pictures I remembered of the actual structures in Egypt. This was very
   pleasant. I seemed to be above the building looking down at it. This
   image, on a slight angle, was probably more subjective than objective.
   Then I seemed to feel a deep ringing gong-type sound, one that was
   rather
   prolonged. It was repeated several times. After this I felt and heard
   a
   series of chants by an unseen group, seemingly out of my field of
   vision to
   my right.)
   
   (The chanting was low and monotonous. It went up and down the scale
   but a
   few notes. I had the feeling that it would repeat itself almost
   effortlessly as long as I sat in this state and listened. I enjoyed
   the
   experience, and was somewhat surprised at the results.)
   
   (I opened my eyes. Jane opened hers, and I could see that Seth was
   present. I described what I had experienced, not knowing if I had
   accomplished anything even remotely approaching what he had in mind.
   &quotI
   dont know why," I added, &quotbut I associated the square base of the
   pyramid
   with this gong effect. It was as though I could see this shape
   especially
   well while listening to the gong sound, which was quite prolonged
   actually.
   It seemed to repeat itself. Like the chants, which were pretty
   monotonous, up and down a few notes on the scale. They werent pitched
   very high, either.")
   
   Seth: &quotThat is a very good beginning."
   
   (I dont know why I use the word gong," I said. I couldnt imitate it. I
   think theres a funny association there also with old movies. I could
   have
   picked up the chanting idea from material Jane was getting earlier
   this
   evening.)
   
   (10:56) Seth: &quotI want you to discover some of these things for
   yourself,
   which is why I used this particular format this evening. I will only
   tell
   you then that your feeling of the sound of a gong is quite legitimate.
   
   &quotI would like both of you at odd moments to look at objects, then
   try to
   hear their sound. This will be handy training for some other things to
   come. This also applies incidentally to various organs of the body,
   and to
   the body itself. Then let the sounds evoke whatever naturally comes
   from
   them. There is a strange inter-relationship between sound and what you
   think of as time, but a binding one.
   
   &quotTime can then appear as a sound. Sound can be used to set apart
   certain
   elements from others, to isolate them from others, and on the other
   hand to
   bind elements also. In that regard think of sound as a line perhaps
   that
   you sketch with.
   
   (11:01) &quotSounds properties are not understood. I want it
   specifically
   noted then that sound can be used as a binder or as a separator of
   elements. It can be used to open up pathways within dimensions, both
   microscopic and macroscopic.
   
   &quotAnd with that I will close our session. Think also, however, of
   the sound
   in connection with your paintings, of sounds that will make the
   paintings
   themselves more vital and the material last longer. And with that I
   will
   leave you."
   
   Rob: &quotThank you very much, Seth. Its been extremely interesting.
   Good
   night."
   
   (11:04. Jane said that while I had been getting my effects, she had
   been
   somewhat separated from Seth after all. She saw groups of men
   &quotlike
   pictures youd see of Egyptians. I saw their dark skin - in color -
   against short robes. They were in groups chanting.")
   
   (She saw a structure like a pyramid shape. She had the feeling that
   &quotheavier sounds were at the bottom. These formed the base of the
   pyramid."
   She tried several times to explain this to me. It was all important,
   she
   said, that the heavier sounds were at the base of the structures. Like
   the
   musical scale, she felt that the sounds used in building the pyramids
   &quotmade
   steps in the air that you couldnt see. Certain sounds went up -
   certain
   sounds bound things together - they all had purposes..."
   
--With kindest regards, Barry Carter &ltbcarter@igc.apc.org&gtBlue Mountain Nat
ive Forest AllianceWEB Page: http://www.triax.com/bmnfa/index.htmVoice: 541-523
-3357Fax:   541-523-9438 Stupidity got us into this mess --why can't it get us
out?

     * Previous message: RON BRENNEN: "Re: Literally Throwing Sound"
     * Next message: Barry Carter: "Sound Breakthrough"
