Ridiculed science mavericks vindicated 

 PREV. | 

 GOOD STUFF | 

 NEW STUFF | 

 SEARCH 

 RIDICULED DISCOVERERS, 
VINDICATED MAVERICKS 
 2002 William 
Beaty 

 THE LIST: scroll down , 
also LINKS 

 Weird science versus revolutionary science 

While it's true that at least 99% of revolutionary announcements from the 
fringes of science are just as bogus as they seem, we cannot dismiss every 
one of them without investigation. If we do, then we'll certainly take 
our place among the ranks of scoffers who accidentally helped delay 
numbers of major scientific discoveries throughout history. Beware, for 
many discoveries such as powered flight and drifting continents today only 
appear sane and acceptable because we have such powerful hind sight. 
These same advancements were seen as obviously a bunch of disgusting 
lunatic garbage during the years they were first discovered. 

In science, pursuing revolutionary advancements can be like searching for 
diamonds hidden in sewage. It's a shame that the realms of questionable 
ideas contain "diamonds" of great value. This makes the of judging crazy 
theories far more difficult. If crazy discoveries were always 
bogus, then we'd have good reason to reject them without investigation. 
However, since the diamonds exist, we must distrust our first impressions. 
Sometimes the "obvious" craziness turns out to be a genuine cutting-edge 
discovery. As with the little child questioning the emperor's clothing, 
sometimes (but rarely, of course,) the entire scientific community is 
misguided and incompetent. Sometimes only the lone voice of the maverick 
scientist is telling the truth.

Below is a list of scientists who were reviled for their crackpottery, 
only to be later proven correct. Today's science texts are dishonest to 
the extent that they hide these huge mistakes made by the scientific 
community. They rarely discuss the embarrassing acts of intellectual 
suppression which 
were directed at the following researchers by their colleagues. And... 
after wide reading, I've never encountered any similar list. [1] This is very telling. 

" When a true genius appears in this world, you may know him by this 
sign, that the dunces are all in confederacy against him. "
 - Jonathan Swift

 THE LIST: scroll down 
also LINKS & BOOKS 

To add: B Belousov, Carl Woese, Gilbert Ling , John C. Lilly

 Arrhenius (ion chemistry)
 Alfven, Hans (galaxy-scale plasma dynamics)
 Baird, John L. (television 
camera)
 Bakker, Robert (fast, 
warm-blooded dinosaurs)
 Bardeen & Brattain (transistor)
 Bretz J Harlen (ice age geology)
 Chandrasekhar, Subrahmanyan 
(black holes in 1930)
 Chladni, Ernst (meteorites in 
1800)
 Crick & Watson (DNA)
 Doppler (optical Doppler effect)
 AE Douglass (tree-ring dating)

 Folk, Robert L. (existence and 
importance of nanobacteria)
 Galvani (bioelectricity)
 Harvey, William (circulation of 
blood, 1628)
 Krebs (ATP energy, Krebs cycle)
 Galileo (supported the Copernican 
viewpoint)
 Gauss, Karl F. (nonEuclidean 
geometery)
 Binning/Roher/Gimzewski 
(scanning-tunneling microscope)
 Goddard, Robert (rocket-powered 
space ships)
 Goethe (Land color theory)
 Gold, Thomas (deep 
non-biological petroleum deposits)
 Gold, Thomas (deep mine 
bacteria)

 von K&aacute;rm&aacute;n, Theodore (rocket propulsion)

 Lister, J (sterilizing)
 Lovelock, James (Gaia theory)
 Maiman, T (Laser)

" Concepts which have proved useful for ordering things easily assume 
so great an authority over us, that we forget their terrestrial 
origin and accept them as unalterable facts. They then become 
labeled as 'conceptual necessities,' etc. The road of scientific 
progress is frequently blocked for long periods by such errors. " 
- Einstein

 Margulis, Lynn (endosymbiotic 
organelles)
 Mayer, Julius R. (The Law of 
Conservation of Energy)
 Marshall, B (ulcers caused by 
bacteria, helicobacter pylori)
 McClintock, Barbara (mobile 
genetic elements, "jumping genes", transposons)
 Newlands, J. (pre-Mendeleev 
periodic table)
 Nott, J. C. (mosquitos xmit 
Yellow Fever)
 Nottebohm, F. (neurogenesis: 
brains can grow neurons)
 Ohm, George S. (Ohm's Law)
 Ovshinsky, Stanford R. 
(amorphous semiconductor devices) 
 Parker, Eugene (existence of a 
'solar wind')
 Pasteur, Louis (germ theory of disease)
 Prusiner, Stanley (existence of prions, 1982)
 Rous, Peyton (viruses cause 
cancer)
 Semmelweis, I. (surgeons wash 
hands, puerperal fever )
 Shechtman, Dan (quasicrystals)
 Steen-McIntyre, Virginia 
 (southwest US indians villiage , 300,000BC)
 Tesla, Nikola (Earth electrical 
resonance, "Schumann" resonance)
 Tesla, Nikola (brushless AC 
motor)
 J H van't Hoff (molecules are 3D)
 Warren, Warren S (flaw in MRI 
theory)
 Wegener, Alfred (continental 
drift)
 Wright, Wilbur & Orville (flying 
machines)
 Zwicky, Fritz (existence of dark 
matter, 1933)
 Zweig, George (quark theory)

" Men show their character in nothing more clearly than by what they 
think laughable. "
-J. W. Goethe

Some ridiculed ideas which had no single supporter:

 Ball lightning (lacking a theory, it was long dismissed as retinal afterimages)
 Catastrophism (ridicule of rapid Earth changes, asteroid mass extinctions)
 Child abuse (before Kempe 1962, doctors were mystified by 
"spontaneous" childhood bruising and broken bones)
 Cooperation or altruism between animals (versus Evolution's required competition)
 Instantaneous meteor noises (evidence rejected because sound should be delayed by distance)
 Mind-body connection (psychoneuroimmunology, doctors ridiculed any emotional basis for disease)
 Perceptrons (later vindicated as Neural Networks)
 Permanent magnet levitation ("Levitron" shouldn't have worked)
 Thoughts and emotions do exist (rejected as contrary to 
stimulus-response of 1950s Behaviorist theory.)

 "The mind likes a strange idea as little as the body likes a strange
 protein and resists it with similar energy. It would not perhaps be
 too fanciful to say that a new idea is the most quickly acting antigen
 known to science. If we watch ourselves honestly we shall often find
 that we have begun to argue against a new idea even before it has been
 completely stated." - Wilfred Trotter, 1941 

 " The study of history is a powerful antidote to contemporary arrogance. 
It is humbling to discover how many of our glib assumptions, which seem to us 
novel and plausible, have been tested before, not once but many times and 
in innumerable guises; and discovered to be, at great human cost, wholly 
false. " -Paul Johnson

 "The 
scientific man does not aim at an immediate result. He does not expect 
that his advanced ideas will be readily taken up. His work is like that of 
the planter—for the future. His duty is to lay the foundation for those 
who are to come, and point the way." 

"Humanity is not yet sufficiently 
advanced to be willingly led by the discoverer's keen searching sense. But 
who knows? Perhaps it is better in this present world of ours that a 
revolutionary idea or invention instead of being helped and patted, be 
hampered and ill-treated in its adolescence — by want of means, by selfish 
interest, pedantry, stupidity and ignorance; that it be attacked and 
stifled; that it pass through bitter trials and tribulations, through the 
strife of commercial existence. So do we get our light. So all that was 
great in the past was ridiculed, condemned, combatted, suppressed — only 
to emerge all the more powerfully, all the more triumphantly from the 
struggle." - Nikola Tesla, The Problem of Increasing Human Energy, 
1900

 Links 

 More Mavericks Needed: a petition 
 viXra: List of crackpots who were Right 2010

 How science *really* works SMBC cartoon
 How math *really* works 

 Expert Speech 
 Negative comments and wrong predictions re. new ideas (Foresight inst)
 Edge.org: scientists' long-held incorrect beliefs 
 MeFi: list of vindicated crazy scientists 
 The Plight of the Obscure Innovator in Science 
 The Blind Eye of Science 
 Cognitive Processes & Suppression of Ideas 
 Closed-minded Science (main amasci page, w/many other articles)
 Neglected Pioneers: Herapath, Waterson 
 Retraction Watch 
 Physics: forgotten history 
 "Impossible" , another list of vindicated discoveries
 Achievements of eccentric loners 

 BOOKS 

The Art of Scientific Investigation Beveridge 1957 (see IX. reistance 
to new ideas)
 The Experts Speak 

Hidden Histories of Science , R. Silvers (ed)

Fatal Attractions: The Troubles with Science , H. Bauer

At the Fringes of Science , M. Friedlander

Great Feuds in Science H. Hellman

Great Feuds in Medicine H. Hellman

...the Myth of the Scientific Method , H. Bauer
 MORE... 

 BREAKTHROUGHS DURING DREAMS 

 Crick, Structure of DNA 
 Friedrich Kekule, Carbon chains & Benzene Ring sipping brandy, half asleep
 S. Ramanujan, multiple proofs detailed daydreams
 Otto Loewi, Acetylcholine woke up, wrote it down
 Einstein, Special Relativity fever dream while ill
 L. Agazzi saw living versions of fossil animals
 Mendeleev, periodic table dream of music/chemistry
 H. Poincare, general solution woke up, wrote it down

Notes: I constantly hear the above problem being dismissed; that the 
number of breakthroughs from crackpots is relatively tiny, or that 
"vindicated mavericks" are rare and exceptional. But we need to be careful 
with this. After all, the number of uneducated crazy people is enormous, 
but this has little impact on number of new ideas in professional 
science . It's not honest to simply ask how many crazy ideas are 
actually crazy. Instead ask how many crazy funding proposals from 
 successful scientists have turned out to be genuinely worthless. 
I'm guessing that the number is quite low. Perhaps the number of 
crazy-yet-vindicated research projects is large enough that it's much 
higher than the number of genuinely stupid research projects. (In that 
case, we should be preferentially funding a proposal because it 
looks crazy.)

 So, if you're going to dismiss or scoff at some crazy idea without 
bothering to first give it a chance and taking an unbiased look ...at 
least make sure the idea is coming from a common crackpot. Few of those 
are worth much. Make damn certain that "teh crazy" ISN'T coming from a 
professional scientist who is trying to fund a research project to give 
that weird-yet-untested idea a serious go. 

 Major 4/17 traffic from SLATE 
STAR CODEX ? 

 Hey Scott, 

First, I think you're confusing your readers by calling it "top ten." 
Many may miss the fact this is an alphabetical list. You've simply gone 
through the entries with names A-D. Some pretty weak examples there; no 
Semmelwise, no McClintock, Barry Marshall, etc. It's no way a Top Ten 
list of 
vindicated mavericks. That's an OK approach, if you'd presented it as a 
somewhat random sampling. As it stands, you seemingly "win the fight" by 
demonstrating the great weakness of the top ten examples, but without 
actually using a list of the top ten examples. I hope it was 
just a mistake. 

 Second: this is a list of: Ridiculed. Then vindicated. The duration 
between the two isn't an issue. Were they ridiculed, and later proved 
correct? That's my requirement. My original intent was to debunk the 
claims of 1990s SCI.SKEPTIC newsgroup and others, whose members absolutely 
insisted that, other than the Galileo event, such problems Don't Exist In 
Science (since if they did, they'd be quite important, and obviously their 
textbooks would have 
presented the many instances!) On the contrary, the contemporary 
ridicule-vindication thing makes science look bad, and hence is a taboo 
topic. It's avoided in science history treatments, and certainly never 
appears in science-worshipping pop articles. I found no lists online like 
this anywhere, so in 2002 slapped one together 
myself. (That's a key point. Where are such lists? Several have 
appeared online in later years, even some using my words but adding more 
prose. But what about the ten decades 1900-2002? )

 Third: Only ten years until vindication? That's supposedly "immedate?" 
Or, should we instead say that acceptance took nearly 
forever: typically ten years! Ahem. :) If each vindication came 
after a 
few years, I very specifically DON'T pretend the ridicule never happened, 
nor do I dismiss it as easily-forgivable, as you seem to. Yes, the 
typical timeline is ten entire years before vindication. Ten years of 
new postdocs entering the field, ten years of folks achieving tenure. 
You suggest that, before the ridicule can become a problem for science, it 
needs to persist thirty years? "Only" ten brief years of blocked 
publications, that's nothing? Therefore all the victims of such 
ridicule-suppression should have no reason to complain? Me, I insist that 
it's supposed to be zero years; that this ridicule-then-vindication is a 
symptom of a quite serious, (if suppressed and hidden) outright disease in 
modern science. 

 As statistics it's frightening, since these small and large instances 
must be part of a distribution. It's a distribution where any major 
 successful suppressions are completely erased. Truely-suppressed 
breakthroughs, the ones with no later vindication; they don't appear in 
records. We have no clue about their number, except by examining these 
known instances of the nearly-suppressed. By definition, only the 
suppressed-vindicated breakthroughs can be detected. Perhaps we're all 
lucky, and my list 
only lacks a tiny percentage of ridiculed-never-vindicated. On the other 
hand, instead 
my list may be the tiny, visible "statistical tail" of an enormous number 
of never-vindicated, lost breakthroughs. (Chilling thought: the next Einstein 
has died unknown, refused publication, having lacked the necessary 
aggression to fight for ~ten years before eventual vindication. More 
chilling: what if by now there have been two lost "next 
Einsteins?" Or twenty?) 

 Third, read again, Doppler never tested the Optical Doppler 
Effect using trains and trumpets. His optical theory was passionately 
rejected by physicists, and not accepted until astronomical red shifts 
were discovered after his death. (The overtly hostile rejection may even 
have played a part in his dying.) 

 Fourth, JL Baird's televisor: the Royal Society members coming out of 
the meeting were being interviewed, and they sneered at Baird, convinced 
that his demonstration was a hoax. When "they didn't believe it," it was 
because they'd decided Baird was a swindler running some sort of scam. 
I'm not finding that ref. online. Perhaps it was the book "The Experts 
Speak." 

 Finally, we differ as to our views of this process. I see these 
people as heroes who had to actively fight for numerous years to 
prevail 
against a biased, ignorant, hostile hoard, with the constant possibility 
that the hoard would win, and their breakthroughs be ignored or even go 
unpublished entirely. Various autobiographies go into detail about it 
all. But 
you seem to see the same events as examples of normal science, as if there 
was no danger of complete suppression, as if all these researchers would 
somehow be 
 automatically vindicated, no need for any effort much less their 
years of battle. Also, 
if you see all this as ignorable and forgivable, I see this as "visible 
flames coming from the seams of the solid rocket boosters!" They're not 
normal, they're not supposed to be there. All these 
events serve as danger-signs for much larger events, yet they're being 
minimized, tolerated, "made normal" by the scientific community, same as 
you do in your posting. Clearly these automatic hostile emotional 
responses to new 
ideas are no part of the scientific process. (Planck isn't supposed to 
be correct when he insists that science can only progress, funeral by 
funeral, because the current crop of experts would rather die than 
change!) 

Statistics: as "automobile accidents," these examples serve as numerous 
"near misses," implying a hidden population of "fatal crashes." The 
existence of these instances indicates much larger and invisible events: 
probable major disasters. But think about it. The fatal ones, no matter 
how large, will never be noticed. Any such disasters become completely 
concealed, by definition. How many Einstein-scale breakthroughs have been 
completely lost so far? None? None, because we have no evidence of any? 
But since they're lost, we can't detect them, and their number could be 
anything. They're gone: either they were never published anywhere, that 
or else today they're barely known and regarded as useless crackpottery.
(Example, a poor one: what if something similar to Blondlot's N-rays 
actually had been real, and by banishing it to the crackpot realm, an 
enormous physics breakthrough was lost? Ridiculed, never-vindicated 
genuine discoveries become inseparable from known crackpottery, and 
thus disappear from our statistics.)

 "Those we see are in the daylight. Those in darkness don't get 
seen" - Bertold Brecht, Threpenny Opera's final line.

OK, who are the actual "Top Ten" vindicated discoverers Scott should 
analyze? Everybody will have a different list!

 Galileo
 Semmelweis
 Wegener
 McClintock
 Nottebohm
 Bretz
 Prusiner
 Zwicky
 Marshall
 Shechtman

 One I missed: J. Edgar Lilienfeld, who invented the transistor in 
1923, but after a decade had made no headway against disbelief, and 
finally retired and gave up. Two decades later Bell Labs stumbled upon 
the modern Bipolar transistor when trying to find some way to get around 
the expired 1925 Lilienfeld patents on the Field Effect Transistor. Bell 
Labs then ran a bit of a smear-campaign, claiming that Lilienfeld 
transistors didn't work; even that Lilienfeld never built any himself. 
(Yet Lilienfeld was an experimentalist, and had a 4-transistor radio in 
the 1930s, showing it to manufacturers, but facing a solid wall of 
emotional responses.) Now it turns out that Bell Labs had successfully 
reproduced Lillienfeld transistors, even publishing a paper about it 
in the same journal with their famous first "crystal triode" paper. And 
they concealed the fact that the paper was a test of Lilienfeld 
transistors. (Heh, not part of Official Transistor History! Neither is 
Lilienfeld.) 

Want a free online book referencing some of this vindication topic? The 
 1950s 
edition of Beveridge "The Art of 
Scientific Investigation" has a whole section on Difficulties in 
science, 
including resistance to new ideas. And about Scientific Concensus, 
Thomas Gold points out a serious 
instability in the peer-review process , almost guaranteed to produce 
false concensus which halts 
progress for long periods.

Arrhenius (ion chemistry)

His idea that electrolytes are full of charged atoms was considered crazy.
The atomic theory was new at the time, and everyone "knew" that atoms were 
non idivisible (and hence they could not lose or gain any electric 
charge.) Because of his heretical idea, he only received his university 
degree by a very narrow margin. 
 Another 
article , and 
 More. 

Hans Alfven (galaxy-scale plasma dynamics)

Astronomers thought that gravity alone is important in solar systems, 
in galaxies, etc. Alfven's idea that plasma physics is of equal or 
greater 
importance to gravity was derided for decades. 

John L. Baird (television camera)

When the first television system was demonstrated to the Royal Society 
(British scientists,) 
they scoffed and ridiculed, calling Baird a swindler.

Robert Bakker (fast, warm-blooded dinosaurs)

Everyone knows that dinosaurs are like Gila monsters or big tortoises: 
large, slow, and intolerant of the cold. And they're all colored olive 
drab too! :)

 Bardeen & Brattain (transistor) Not 
ridiculed, but their boss W. Shockley nixed their idea for a non-FET 
"crystal triode" device. When they started investigating it, he made them 
stop. They were supposed to be working on FETs instead. 

 ARG, I GOT THIS PART BELOW WRONG, BELOW IS A BELL-LABS STORY 
REGARDING 
ZONE-REFINING OF SILICON, NOT THE BJT TRANSISTOR PROJECT: "So, they 
assembled their ZONE REFINING experiment on a wheeled cart and continued. 
Whenever the boss was scheduled to check up on them, they could shove it 
into an adjacent unused lab." 

 J Harlen Bretz Endured decades of 
scorn as the laughingstock of the geology world. His crime was to insist 
that enormous amounts of evidence showed that, in Eastern Washington 
state, the "scabland" desert landscape had endured an ancient catastrophy: 
a flood of staggering proportions. This was outright heresy, since the 
geology community of the time had dogmatic belief in a "uniformitarian" 
position, where all changes must take place slowly and incrementally over 
vast time scales. Bretz' ideas were entirely vindicated by the 1950s. 
Quote: "All my enemies are dead, so I have no one to gloat over." 

 Another 
article 

 Subrahmanyan Chandrasekhar (black holes in 1930,
squashed by Eddington) Chandra originated Black Hole theory
and published several papers. He was attacked viciously by his close 
colleague Sir Arthur
Eddington, and his theory was discredited in the eyes of the research
community. They were wrong, and Eddington apparently took such strong 
action based on an incorrect pet theory of his own. In the end Chandra 
could not even pursue a career in England, and he moved his research to
the U. of Chicago in 1937, laboring in relative obscurity for decades. 
Others rediscovered Black Hole theory thirty years later. He won the 1983 Nobel Prize in
physics, major recognition only fifty years. Never underestimate
the authority-following tendency of the physics community, or the power of 
ridicule when used by people of stature such as Eddington. 

Chladni (meteorites in 1800)

The scientific community regarded Meteorites in the same way that modern
scientists regard UFO abductions and psychic phenomenon: quaint
superstitions only believed by peasant folk. All the eyewitness reports
were disbelieved. At one point the ridicule became so intense that many
museums with meteorites in their geology collections decided to trash
those valuable samples. (Sometimes hostile skepticism controls reality,
and the strongest evidence is edited to conform to concensus disbeliefs.)
Finally in the early 1800's Ernst Chladni actually sat down and inspected
the evidence professionally, and found that claimed meteorites were
entirely unlike known earth rocks. His study changed some minds. At the
same time some large meteor falls were witnessed by scientists, and the
majority who insisted that only ignorant peasants ever saw such things
were shamed into silence. The tide of disbelief shifted... yet this
important event is not taught to science students, and those ignorant of
such history repeat such failures over and over, as with the
hostile disbelief regarding Ball Lightning. 

Crick and Watson (DNA)

Not ridiculed. But they were instructed to drop their research. They 
continued it as "bootleg" research.

C.J. Doppler (Doppler effect)

Proposed a theory of the optical Doppler Effect in 1842, but was bitterly
opposed for two decades because it did not fit with the accepted physics
of the time (it contradicted the Luminiferous Aether theory.) Doppler 
was finally proven right in 1868 when W. Huggins observed red shifts and 
blue shifts in stellar spectra. Unfortunately this was fifteen years 
after Doppler had died. 

 Robert L. Folk (existence and importance of 
nanobacteria) 

 Discovered bacteria with diameters far below
200nM widely present in mineral samples, able to both metabolize metals
and
to create calcium encrustations. Proposed their large role in creation
of "metamorphic" rock and everyday metal corrosion. These ideas were 
rejected with hostility because the bacterial diameter is too small to 
include enough genetic material or ribosomes, and they seem immune 
to common sterilization techniques.

Galvani (bioelectricity)

"They call me the frogs' dance instructor."

William Harvey (circulation of blood)

His discovery of blood circulation caused the scientific community of the 
time to ostracize him.

Krebs (ATP energy, Krebs cycle)

Galileo (supported the Copernican viewpoint)

It was not the church authorities who refused to look through his 
telescope. It was his fellow scientists! They thought that using a 
telescope was a waste of time, since even if they 
did see evidence for Galileo's claims, it could only be because Galileo 
had bewitched them. 

Karl F. Gauss (nonEuclidean geometery)

Kept secret his discovery of non-Euclidean geometry for thirty 
years because of fear of ridicule. 
Lobachevsky later published similar work and WAS ridiculed. After Gauss'
death his work was finally published, but even then it took decades for 
Noneuclidean Geometery to overturn the Greek mathematically "pure" view of 
geometery, and to win acceptance among the professionals. 

Binning/Roher/Gimzewski (scanning-tunneling microscope)

Invented in 1982, other surface scientists refused to believe that 
atom-scale resolution was possible, and 
demonstrations of the STM in 1985 were still met by
hostility, shouts, and laughter from the specialists in the microscopy
field. Its discoverers won the Nobel prize in 1986, which went far in
forcing an unusually rapid change in the attitude of colleagues.

R. Goddard (rocket-powered space ships)

Everyone knows that rocket-powered spacecraft are ridiculous and 
embarrassing "Flash Gordon" ideas. Goddard was publicly ridiculed by the 
NY Times, and then remained relatively obscure until late 1944, when those 
silly Jules-Verne fantasies started raining down on London during WWII. 
(By analogy, imagine the consternation of the scientific community if Iraq 
responded to Desert Storm with fleets of flying saucers 
w/deathrays!) 

 "The whole procedure [of shooting rockets into space]...presents
 difficulties of so fundamental a nature, that we are forced to dismiss
 the notion as essentially impracticable, in spite of the author's 
 insistent appeal to put aside prejudice and to recollect the supposed
 impossibility of heavier-than-air flight before it was actually
 accomplished." 
 -Sir Richard van der Riet Wooley, British astronomer, reviewing P.E.
 Cleator's "Rockets in Space", NATURE, March 14, 1936 

"This foolish idea of shooting at the moon is an example of the absurd
 lengths to which vicious specialisation will carry scientists." 
 -A.W. Bickerton, physicist, NZ, 1926 

The other rocket experts, von Karman's group at Caltech, avoided ridicule 
by judicious use of lying: they called their devices "jets." Hence, their 
successful product "Jet-assisted Takeoff," i.e. strapping solid-fuel 
rockets to military aircraft (not jets.) And hence the name "JPL Jet 
Propulsion Laboratory" which was founded to research *rocket* propulsion and 
weaponry, no jets involved.

 Another article 

Goethe (Land color theory)

T. Gold (deep non-biological petroleum deposits)

T. Gold (deep mine microbes)

von K&aacute;rm&agrave;n, Theodore (rocket propulsion)

Along with Parsons, Malina and others, founded JPL, Jet Propulsion Labs. 
However, they all had to fight against the scientific community's 
widespread hostile disbelief in rocket propulsion. Back then, all 
right-thinking scientists sneered at such things, heaping rockets with 
derision. After all, rocket-propelled vehicles were just a bunch of 
impossible Flash-Gordon fantasies, only believed by the same complete 
idiots who thought it might be possible to fly to the moon and planets. 
Therefore, as a wise countermove the JPL founders stopped calling them 
Rockets. They carefully referred the them only as "Jets." (If Robert 
Goddard had done the same, maybe he wouldn't have ended up a ridiculed 
failure!) They sold Rocket-Assisted Takeoff motors to the military, 
calling them "JATO units." (Jet-assisted takeoff. But they were 
solid-fuel rocket motors. Not jets.) And then, when it came time to name 
their new propulsion company ...what did they call it? "JET propulsion 
labs!" This handily avoided all the sneering laughter always directed at 
anyone 
who dared to work with those ridiculous and disgusting "Flash-Gordon 
rocket-tubes." JPL 
succeeded, but their entire topic remained rocketry. Not "jets." (Back 
then another group was able to do the same: crazed irrational Nazis, who 
also literally believed in flyinc-saucer aliens living inside the hollow 
Earth. The irrational Nazis funded some antigravity, some circular disk 
aircraft, and also dumped millions to develop some impossible Flash Gordon 
rocket-tubes, and actually believed they were going to fly into space, 
land on the moon, etc. )

J. Lister (sterilizing)

James Lovelock (Gaia theory)

Discovered that Earth's biosphere is analogous to a living organism with 
homeostasis: multiple feedback paths maintaining the average temperature 
and gas mixture of Earth's atmosphere. (Main one: ocean algae control the 
average temperature by sequestering CO2 and emitting DMS which becomes 
cloud-seeding sulfate aerosol.) This was dismissed and Lovelock attacked 
mostly on the grounds that evolution forbids such planetary organisms 
...and that a living Earth is disgusting New-agey aborigial belief.
 Another 
article 

T. Maiman (Laser)

Not ridiculed, but his boss said no to his 'optical maser' idea. Maiman 
received funding only after threatening to quit and pursue the laser in 
his garage. Even so, ongoing research was a battle, and his funding was 
pulled twice. 

Lynn Margulis (endosymbiotic organelles)

In 1970 Margulis was not only denied funding but also subjected to
intense scorn by reviewers at the NSF. "I was flatly turned down," 
Margulis said, and the grants officers added
"that I should never apply again." Textbooks today quote her discovery as 
fact; that plant and animal cells are really communities of cooperating 
bacteria. But they make no mention of the barriers erected by the 
biological community against these new ideas. Even today Margulis' ideas 
about cooperation in Evolution are not widely accepted, and are only 
making slow headway against the assumption that Evolution exclusively 
involves absolute selfishness and pure competition.

Julius R. Mayer (The Law of Conservation of Energy)

Mayer's original paper was contemptuously rejected by the leading physics 
journals of the time.

B. Marshall (ulcers caused by bacteria, helicobacter pylori)

Stomach ulcers are caused by acid. All physicians knew this. Marshall 
needed about 10 years to convince the medical establishment to change 
their beliefs and accept that their confident knowledge was wrong; was 
nothing but a widespread belief, and that ulcers are actually a bacterial 
disease. Toward the end he gave up and produced ulcers on demand by
dosing himself with H. Pylori. 
This seems to have broken the irrational logjam. See

B. McClintock (mobile genetic elements, "jumping genes", transposons)

Won the Nobel in 1984 after enduring 32 
years being ridiculed and ignored 

 Another 
article 

J. Newlands (pre-Mendeleev periodic table)

Josiah C. Nott (Mosquito transmission of Yellow Fever, Malaria)

Fought an uphill battle against the "toxic gases from swamps" theory of 
Malaria, etc. His theory was ignored for three decades, then championed
by C. Finlay and others, who were ignored an additional two decades 
(ridiculed as "mosquito men" self-deluded crackpots,) finally Walter Reed 
penetrated the disbelief ca. 1900, yet still years later the same scoffing 
halted the eradication of mosquitos during construction of the Panama 
Canal. See: http://www.skeptic.com/eskeptic/11-01-26/#feature 

 Fernando Nottebohm Mammal brains
never grow new neurons after birth? We're given a set number of brain
cells, and we can only kill them but not make new ones? After twenty years
as a ridiculed minority, Nottebohm's work with songbird brains was finally
taken seriously, and the biologists of today now recognize that the
age-old dogma was wrong: brains DO regenerate neurons after all. As of the
late 1990s the information has not yet reached most of the biological
community, nor the general public. 

George S. Ohm (Ohm's Law)

Ohm's initial publication was met with ridicule and dismissal; called "a 
tissue of naked fantasy." Approx. twenty years passed before 
scientists began to recognize its great importance.
See M. Schagrin, "Resistance to Ohm's Law," American Journal of Physics, 
#31 pp536-547 1963.

 Another 
article 

L. Pasteur (germ theory of disease)

Eugene Parker (existence of a 'soler wind')

Opposition to his 'solar wind' hypothesis was strong. Strangely enough, 
he was rescued by S. Chandra, who decades earlier was victim of a similar 
situation with a theory of black holes.

Prusiner, Stanley (existence of prions, 1982)

Prusiner endured derision from colleagues for his prion theory explaining 
Mad Cow Disease, but was vidicated by winning the Nobel.

 Another article 

Stanford R. Ovshinsky (amorphous semiconductor devices) 

Physicists "knew" that chips and transistors could only be made from
expensive slices of ultra-pure single-crystal semiconductor. Ovshinsky's 
breakthrough
invention of glasslike semiconductors was attacked by 
physicists and then ignored for more than a decade. (When evidence 
contradicts consensus belief, inspecting that evidence somehow becomes a 
waste of time.) Ovshinsky was bankrupt and near destitute when finally the
Japanese took interest and funded his work. The result: the new science
of amorphous semiconductor physics, as well as inexpensive
thin-film semiconductor technology (in particular the amorphous solar
cell, photocopier components, and writeable CDROMS sold by Sharp Inc.) 
made millions for Japan rather than for the US. 

Ovshinsky's strange devices, Semiconductors made from glass 
 Pop. Science 4/1978

Ignaz Semmelweis (surgeons wash hands, puerperal fever )

Semmelweis brought the medical community the idea that they were killing 
large numbers of new mothers by working with festering wounds in surgery, 
then immediately 
assisting with births without even washing hands. Such a truth was far 
too shameful for a community of experts to accept, so he 
was ignored. Semmelweis finally ended up in a mental hospital, and his 
ideas caught fire after he had died. 
 Another 
article 

Dan Shechtman (quasicrystals)

Discovered "impossible" pentagonal crystals in 1982 and ejected from his 
lab group for it. Rapid replication, but then (shades of Eddignton vs. 
Chandra!) reversal because of ongoing ridicule by Linus Pauling.
Vindication: 2011 Nobel Prize in Chemistry . (Note: 
Pauling never reversed his disbelief. Note well this.)
 The Guardian: 'Linus Pauling said I was talking nonsense' 

Virginia Steen-McIntyre (found that ancient indian villiages date to 
300,000BC)

Steen-McIntyre innocently stumbled into heresy when she found wide-ranging 
evidence that native settlements in the USA southwest were 300,000 years 
old. This damaged her career, since the dates acceptable to the 
archeologist community are roughly 50,000BC at the earliest. 

N. Tesla (Earth electrical resonance, now called "Schumann" resonance)

N. Tesla (brushless AC motor)

The idea of an AC motor which lacks brushes was ridiculed by Tesla's 
instructor as 
impossible: an instance of a Perpetual Motion Machine. Tesla responded 
to the hour of classroom ridicule by dedicating his life to somehow 
creating such a physically impossible motor.

Jacobus Henricus van't Hoff (theory of 3D molecules)

As a relative newcomer and unknown, he was attacked and ridiculed for 
proposing that a 3D tetrahedral structure would 
explain many problems in chemistry. His foes rapidly went silent, and 
finally his ridiculous cardboard models won the first nobel prize in 
chemistry (1901.)

Alfred Wegener (continental drift)

Wegener, an astronomer and explorer, attracted vitriolic attacks and 
namecalling from the 
geologist expert community for finding much solid evidence 
that the edges of Americas and Africa were once joined. He died decades 
before discovery of the magnetic zones parallel to mid-ocean spreading 
centers finally swayed opinion in his favor.

 Another article 

Peyton Rous (viruses cause cancer)

Warren S. Warren (flaws in MRI theory)

Warren and his team at Princeton tracked down a Magnetic Resonance anomaly 
and found a 
new facet to MRI theory: spin interactions between distant molecules, 
including deterministic Chaos effects.
Colleagues knew he was wrong, and warned him 
that his crazy results were endangering his career. Princeton 
held a "roast", a 
mean-spirited bogus presentation mocking his work. Warren then began 
encountering funding cancellations. After approx. seven years, the tide 
of ridicule turned and Warren was vindicated. His discoveries are even 
leading to new 
MRI techniques. See: SCIENCE NEWS, Jan 20 2001, V159 N3, 
 "spin Control" 
(cover story)

Wright bros (flying machines) 
 After their Kitty Hawk success, The Wrights flew their machine
in open fields next to a busy rail line in Dayton Ohio for almost an 
entire year. American
authorities refused to come to the demos, and Scientific American Magazine
published stories about "The Lying Brothers." Even the local Dayton
newspapers never sent a reporter (but they did complain about all the
letters they were receiving from local "crazies" who reported the many
flights.) Finally the Wrights packed up and moved to Europe, where they
caused an overnight sensation and sold aircraft contracts to France, 
Germany, Britain, etc. 

George Zweig (quark theory)

Zweig published quark theory at CERN in 1964 (calling them 'aces'), but
everyone knows that no particle can have 1/3 electric charge. Rather than
receiving recognition, he encountered stiff barriers and was accused of 
being a charlatan. 

Fritz Zwicky (Dark Matter)

Known in the astro research community as "Crazy Fritz," Zwicky 
investigated orbit statistics of galactic clusters in 1933 and concluded 
that the majority of mass had an invisible unknown source. He was 
ignored, dismissed as an eccentric. 
 Another article 

/weird/vindac.html 

Created and maintained by Bill 
Beaty . Mail me at: .

 View My Stats