THE VORTEX-L DISCUSSION GROUP

To put it bluntly, Vortex-L is a forum for "true believers." 

Skeptics are tolerated but not welcomed.  For yet another definition of
the two types of people, see the excellent article in a recent issue of
SKEPTIC, V5 #2, "Skepticism and Credulity: finding the balance between
Type I and Type II errors" by B. Wisdom. 

The article discusses the philosophy behind two types of mental attitude:

   1. 'Skeptics:' those who, in order to reject all falsehoods, don't mind
      accidentally rejecting truths.

   2. 'Believers:' those who, in order to accept all truths, don't mind
      accidentally accepting falsehoods.

Some people fall between these two descriptions.  However, there is
significant polarization as well: whose who are solidly in one camp or the
other seem to outnumber those who succeed in remaining between the two. 

I have observed that each camp holds great disrespect for the other,
bordering on hatred.  Those of persuasion #1 regard the opposite camp as
dangerously gullible "true believers" who would allow science to be
damaged by irrational beliefs in things such as UFOs, psi phenomena, Free
Energy, etc.  Those of persuasion #2 regard the other side as dangerously
closeminded "pathological skeptics" who stifle research and preserve
science from the crazy notions of folks like Galileo, Goddard, the
Wrights, Margulis, etc.

A few years ago the sci.physics.fusion newsgroup was increasingly becoming
a battleground for the two types.  Those who reasoned that "we must study
cold fusion because there is some evidence that it is real" were
constantly attacked by those who believe "we must reject cold fusion
because there is little evidence for it," and vice versa.  Particularly
shameful was the amount of hostility including sneering ridicule,
emotional arguments, arrogant self-blindness, and great use of the low,
unscientific techniques outlined in ZEN AND THE ART OF DEBUNKERY. 
(See http://www.eskimo.com/~billb/weird/wclose.html) 

I started this group as an openminded "quiet harbor" for interested
parties to discuss the Griggs Rotor away from the sci.physics.fusion
uproar.  It quickly mutated into a "believers forum" for discussion of
cold fusion and other anomalous physics.  I created Rule #2 to prevent
this list from becoming another battleground like the sci.physics.fusion
newsgroup.  Vortex-L is intended to be a discussion area for researchers
who practice extreme openmindedness and who will "accept falsehoods in
order to avoid rejecting truths". 

I believe that many scientists reject new ideas because they unknowingly
maintain an illusory "consensus worldview," and as a result they have
become intolerant of ideas which violate that consensus.  This forum is
for those with a low tolerance for consensus-think and a high tolerance
for "crazy ideas."

Vortex-L is for those who see great value in removing their usual mental
filters by provisionally accepting the validity of "impossible" phenomena
in order to test them.  This excellent quote found by Gene Mallove clearly
states the problem, and reveals the need for "true believers" in a science
community otherwise ruled by conservative skepticism:

  "It is really quite amazing by what margins competent but conservative
  scientists and engineers can miss the mark, when they start with the
  preconceived idea that what they are investigating is impossible.  When
  this happens, the most well-informed men become blinded by their
  prejudices and are unable to see what lies directly ahead of them." 
   - Arthur C. Clarke, 1963

So, on Vortex-L we intentionally suspend the Skeptical attitude of
those who believe in the classic "scientific method."  While this does
leave us open to the great personal embarrassment of falling for hoaxes and
delusional thinking, we tolerate this problem in our quest to consider
ideas and phenomena which would otherwise be rejected out of hand without
a fair hearing.  There are diamonds in the filth, and we see that we
cannot hunt for diamonds without getting dirty. 

Note that skepticism of the openminded sort is perfectly acceptable on
Vortex-L.  The ban here is aimed at "hostile disbelief" and at the sort of
Skepticism which rejects all that is not solidly proved true, while
ignoring all new data and observations which conflict with widely accepted
theory.

.....................uuuu / oo \ uuuu........,.............................
William Beaty  voice:206-781-3320   bbs:206-789-0775    cserv:71241,3623
EE/Programmer/Science exhibit designer        http://www.eskimo.com/~billb/
Seattle, WA 98117  billb@eskimo.com           SCIENCE HOBBYIST web page
