BayCup Fencing 

Information for Tournament Hosting 
 Host organizers are required to do the following: 

Ensure all fencers are either: 

Outside the Bay Cup Region ( see below ) 

Are Bay Cup members. This means it has a Bay Cup receipt for this
year or is on the Bay Cup 

 member list (see Senior Bay Cup Members 
or
 Junior Bay Cup Members or Veteran
Bay Cup Members )

Signing up for the Bay Cup the first time. Make sure you have the
Bay Cup receipt forms. 

Download the entry form ( page 1 , and page
2 if you expect a larger crowd), 

the
 pool sheets ,

the
 DE table sheets ,

the DE scoresheets ( regular 15-touch bouts 
or
 Y10/12 2-of-3 5-touch bouts ),

the
 Final-8 tableau sheet (if needed),
and

the
 results form 
 prior to the tournament. See below 
for recommended number of copies to make.

Within one to two weeks prior to the event, send email to edew@eskimo.com 
with the check-in close times, 

 and a potential list of referees (or state that the event is primarily
self-refereed). Send any electronic copy of the
 flyer you are sending out to clubs as well to the above eddress to
be placed in the notices.

After the event, send via mail (or FedEx, though that's not recommended)
the following: 

Completed results forms, entry forms, completed pool sheets, and DE tableau
sheets. Please include the 

 names of the referees for each pool sheet and DE quadrants.

All money for Bay Cup registration and the YELLOW 
copy of the receipt. Registration is $40/fencer. 

 Please do not hold back for referee fees. The Bay Cup will reimburse
the host club for referee fees. See
 below concerning referee reimbursement rules. 

All host organizers are encouraged to make the events special by providing
a theme for the event (e.g., the Memorial 

 events that Golden Gate Fencing Center are hosting, the Wine Open that
Sonoma Fencing Academy runs, and several
 others). All host organizers are encouraged to offer other prizes
in addition to the medals. None of this bullet item
 is mandatory. 

 Referee reimbursement rules: 

All Junior Bay Cup events must have hired referees. There should
be no self-refereeing for junior events. Please 

 check the Referees page for a list of available
referees and contact information.

Referees are classed as either type 1 or type 2. Type 1's are competent,
experienced referees, possibly with national 

 referee rating. Type 2 referees are up-and-coming referees with
limited or no experience.

Suggested payment to referees: 

For highly-attended events (>32 competitors): $80/day for fully utilized
Type 1's; 

 $60 for fully utilized type 2's.

For several small (<32 competitors) events, $25/event for fully utilized
Type 1's, $15/event for fully utilized 

 Type 2's.

Fencer-referees will have the entry fee(s) reimbursed fully, if they are
the primary referee in their pools and DEs. 

Fencer-referees who also referee fully in a secondary event in which they
do not compete in (e.g., a male 

 fencer refereeing a women's event) will be paid $20/event for those
events where he or she fully referees. 

The Bay Cup will reimburse clubs for the following amount, assuming hired
referees are used: 

Minimum amount of $40. 

The lesser of the following: 

$4/fencer (total for all events that day at that location) 

$40/referee, assuming competent, fully utilized referees, and $25/referee
for the up-and-coming 

 referees (again, fully utilized)

50% of the club's compensation to referees 

$280.00 

Reimbursements for fencer-referees will be a straight 50% only for those
events where the referee is also not 

 competing. There is no reimbursement for using fencer-referees
where the person is also competing (item 3 above). 

Junior Sabre events will be paid separately from the regular Bay Cup account. 

 Recommended number of
scoresheets and pool sizes and other rules of thumb: 

 Number of competitors 

 Number of pools (and thus scoresheets) 

 1-9 

 one pool, double strip if possible 

 10-14, 16 

 two pools, double strip for 16 

 15, 17-19 (maybe 20), 21 

 three pools 

 (maybe 20), 22-28 

 four pools 

 29-35 

 five pools 

 36+ 

 arrange to have pools of 6's and 7's 

 Each DE scoresheet page has eight scoresheets. You need one scoresheet
for each competitor.
 Competition format should be one round of pools, 100% up to DE with
no repechage. There is no fence-off for third
 place. In some situations, and with agreement by the competitors,
other formats may be used.
 Expect a pool of 6 to be completed in one hour, a pool of 7 in one and
one-half hours. Sabre pools will move quicker
 and epee pools will move just a bit slower. Pools of 5 or less
may be completed in thirty to forty-five minutes.
 Original seeding into the tournament is based on the following in the
given order:

National Points 

Letter Rating 

Year Rating was earned 

Bay Cup points 

Random order 

Flip lower-seeded fencers to balance out club representation in the pools.
 After the pools are completed, seed fencers in the following order:

Victories/Bouts 

Indicators (touches scored - touches received) 

Touches scored 

Random order 

You do not have to assign new ratings for fencers after the tournament. 
The Bay Cup administrator will verify and
 forward all new ratings changes to the USFA.
 The Bay Cup Region: 
 Beginning this season, the Bay Cup Region is defined to be
within a seventy-five mile radius of Oakland (City Hall).
 Fencers belonging to clubs outside the Region (currently, that would
include just Cal-Poly SLO, Le Cote d'Escrime,
 Monterey Peninsula Fencers Sierra Fencing Club, and all clubs
outside the tri-division), or unattached fencers who
 live outside the Region are allowed a two-event waiver of the $40 registration
fee. Please read the members section
 for more information. 

 Copyright &copy; 2000 Bay Cup 
 Contact
the Webmaster