BayCup Fencing 

 On going 

 Olympian Iris Zimmermann offers training seminars 
 Referee seminars in Northern California Division. 
 Regional Youth Circuit website is available for perusal 
 Hey Fencers! Know the RULES ... 
 New Bay Cup Yahoo! Groups:

 Bay Cup fencers and others 
 Bay Cup coaches 
 Bay Cup Advisory Group 

 Archives 

 2001-2002 Season 
 2000-2001 Season 
 1999-2000 Season 

 items here for the left column-->

 13-Dec-2002 Start your 2003 new year with some strong epee training. Top Bay Area epee fencer and possible 2004 Olympian Eric Hansen is holding a junior epee training camp on January 1. Yes, hit the strip right after that new year partying! Anyway, if you're interested, here's the enrollment form . 
 10-Dec-2002 Some exciting changes to the Bay Cup are in the works. First, there are three new Yahoo! Groups created to help make communication among fencers, coaches, and others easier to deal with. Second, thanks to Jeff Powell of Salle DeCesare, the Bay Cup website will soon be moving to a new URL, perhaps www.thebaycup.org (it's not finalized yet). Then, it'll be easier to remember the URL instead of this convoluted eskimo thingee. More information is in store in the news section. Click there and read all about it. 
 09-Dec-2002 Updated check-in close times to include the Junior Sabre at CFA. That'll be it for the remainder of the calendar year. Have a wonderful holiday season and see you next year! Also, look for new items here on the Bay Cup website. They will be significant! 
 21-Nov-2002 USFA is running a "best on the web" best fencing website promotion. How often have your accessed this site for your fencing information pleasure (or otherwise?). You think? Hey, maybe this site can be nominated. Go follow the rules in the latest American Fencing magazine and vote for the Bay Cup website! 
 REMINDERS FOR UPCOMING PRE-REG TOURNAMENTS: 

 The Duel In The Desert Pacific Coast Sectional Circuit event, scheduled for January 3-5, 2003 in Las Vegas also requires pre-registering by December 2, or it's double at the door. Please register online or download a form from the DITD website. Note that you more-or-less need IE 4.X or higher to view the website. 
 NAC "E" in San Diego, CA (ahh!!), Div I/Junior NAC has December 17 entry forms due. Use the same form as for the NAC "D" above. Fax back to the same fax number, too. 

That's in for now... 
 13-Nov-2002 Bay Cup Membership card and plastic sleeve collection and redistribution! Apparently, some clubs have a lot of unused cards and sleeves. And some clubs have already used up all their cards and sleeves. If you have some extras, bring them along to the upcoming RYC Bay Cup at Kezar Pavilion this weekend and drop them off with the needy this winter. 

 Copyright &copy; 2002 Bay Cup 
 Contact the Webmaster