



                (word processor parameters LM=8, RM=75, TM=2, BM=2)
                      Taken from KeelyNet BBS (214) 324-3501
                           Sponsored by Vangard Sciences
                                    PO BOX 1031
                                Mesquite, TX 75150

                       There are ABSOLUTELY NO RESTRICTIONS
                  on duplicating, publishing or distributing the
                       files on KeelyNet except where noted!

                                 December 3, 1993

                                   GARRETT1.ASC
       --------------------------------------------------------------------
             The Next Step in Energy Production, Engines and Lighting
                                by Jerry W. Decker

           (with apologies  to  the  Dallas  Morning News, the Van Nostrand
                 Scientific Encylopedia and the US Patent Office)

       For years we have heard stories about  a demonstration of a car that
       ran on water  here  in the Dallas area.  Never was  there  any  text
       substantiation or other  documents  relating  details.   Many of our
       friends had also heard the story  with  hints  of  a  green  pill or
       powder that was  added  to  the  water while in the  gas  tank  that
       somehow made it combustible with no further actions taken beyond the
       simple ignition via a high intensity spark.

       About two or  three  years  ago,  our friends Howard and Joanne Bond
       sent us a  short newspaper clipping  describing  the  demonstration.
       The article indicates a patent was secured for the  "something" that
       made the car  run on water.  That has kept me inspired all this time
       and made me keep an eye and ear out for additional information.

       The basic story was that the inventor  of  the  traffic  light,  Dad
       Garrett, failed to  get  a patent on the idea.  Every  city  adopted
       traffic lights for  which Dad Garrett received little in return.  He
       and his son Charles invented many  devices,  among  them  a means of
       making an automobile engine run on water.

       To promote the discovery, a public demonstration was  held  at White
       Rock Lake in Dallas somewhere around 1934.  The event was covered by
       news media of  the  day  and  we  understand  there  was a Pathe' or
       Movietone newsreel.  An automobile  was  towed to the lake site.  We
       do not know  the type of automobile or whether  it  was  a  6  or  8
       cylinder engine.  A  gallon  of  water was removed from the lake and
       put into the gas tank.  The car was  then  started and driven around
       the lake with no problems.

       Several months back, I decided to do whatever it would  take  to dig
       up this patent.   I knew from the article that a Dad Garrett and his
       son Charles had invented this "something".  I  did not know the year
       of this alledged  patent  and so had to go through  several  volumes
       looking for anything   relating  to  Garrett.   Sometimes  inventors
       assign their invention to companies  and  that  posed  an additional
       problem if such was the case.

       I finally did find a patent issued to Charles H. Garrett on July 2,

                                      Page 1





       1935 and called   an   ELECTROLYTIC   CARBURETOR.   The  number  was
       2,006,676.  Since the microfiches  only  go  back  to about the mid-
       40's, I had no option except to order it from the patent  office.  A
       letter was sent to them with $2.00 ($1.50 for the patent and .50 for
       mailing costs).  After  almost  3 months, I got a letter saying that
       patents had now gone up to $3.00.  So, another letter with the $1.00
       FINALLY got me the patent about 3 weeks later.

       I have been calling it a HYDROLYTIC CARBURETOR because of WHAT it is
       combusting and have been totally  amazed  at  the  simplicity of the
       technology.  Several of our associates have received  advance copies
       of it and  are  quite impressed, saying they will build and test it.
       We too will test it and openly share our findings.
       --------------------------------------------------------------------
       I fully intended to not place the  patent online until the newspaper
       articles had been   researched   and   also   furnished   for   your
       investigations.  However, the patent is so incredible that I feel it
       should be placed  online  ASAP  and  so,  the  text of the patent is
       included in the Garrett file series  as follows. The patent drawings
       are recorded as   GARRETT1.GIF,   GARRETT2.GIF,   GARRETT3.GIF   and
       GARRETT4.GIF.  Please feel free to pass this file around.

       The newspaper articles  are  included  in  this  file  for the exact
       information as published from the  1935  demonstration to the latest
       modern report of which I am aware.

       Bob Aldrich of Survivor BBS in LA gave us additional  patent numbers
       pertaining to the  Horvath  patents  for  electrolysis  to  power an
       automobile engine.  Of those patents,  the  Garrett patent was NEVER
       listed as a "prior art" patent.  That is quite odd  as  it  PRECEDES
       several of the  points  made  by  the Horvath patent, not to mention
       being SO SIMPLE.  Experiments will  be  carried  out  on the Garrett
       design and we and our fellow experimenters will share  our  findings
       for those interested.  The potential is ENORMOUS.   <end of comment>
       --------------------------------------------------------------------
       What follows is  the story that confirmed no green pill was involved
       in the process and which Howard and Joanne Bond sent to KeelyNet.

       Dallas Morning News - 1992 - Long Format

       Column       :  TEXAS SKETCHES
       Headline     :  Early inventor builds water-powered auto

       Date         :  September 6, 1992      Section  :  TEXAS & SOUTHWEST
       Page         :  48A                    Edition  :  HOME FINAL
       Author       :  A.C. Greene         Word Count  :  398

       Text :

       The late Henry "Dad" Garrett was  a  multi-talented  Dallas inventor
       with a bent  for electrical contrivances, and in 1935,  he  and  his
       son, C.H. Garrett,  patented and exhibited an automobile that ran on
       water -- actually, on hydrogen after  the  water  was broken down by
       electrolysis.

       Dad Garrett was already famous for his work.  In 1920  he set up WRR
       in Dallas, the  world's  first  municipal radio station, and was its
       first announcer.  He was the first  man to build a radio in his car,
       and he developed radio transmission from the car for police use.  He

                                      Page 2





       also invented an  automatic  electric  traffic  signal, possibly the
       nation's first.

       Eugene P. Aldredge recalled the  Garretts:  "I  had  rented  a small
       office on the seventh floor of the Allen building in downtown Dallas
       for my letter  service,  and  one  of  my  early customers  was  the
       eighteenth floor National  Electric  Signal Co. owned by Dad Garrett
       and son C.H.

       "I was informed that the two were  experimenting  with an automobile
       that used water for fuel, that they carried on their  experiments in
       a workshop adjacent  to  their office on the top floor, and that two
       separate explosions (from dangerous  hydrogen)  had  nearly  blown a
       hole in the roof of the building...Neither was hurt."

       On September 8, 1935, The Dallas Morning News first  announced  that
       the water-fuel concept  worked  --  at  least it worked for "several
       minutes," the article reported.

       A few months later, Pathe' News filmed the car driving along Garland
       Road with the driver stopping at  White  Rock  Lake to fill the fuel
       tank with water  before  cruising  off.  In 1970, Karen  Klinefelter
       wrote, "Aptly enough,  the  film  was shown on Pathe's Stranger than
       Fiction feature program."

       C.H. Garrett said the only items needed to convert a gasoline-engine
       auto to a   water  burner  was  an   electrolytic   carburetor   and
       installation of a  generator  of  double  normal  capacity  for  the
       breaking down of the water.

       He claimed instant  starts  in  any weather, no fire hazards, cooler
       operation and plenty of power and  speed.  The car was not marketed,
       and no one seems to know its ultimate destiny.  Both Garretts died a
       number of years ago.  <end of article>

        [A.C. Greene is an author and Texas historian who lives in Salado.]
       --------------------------------------------------------------------
       The original September  8, 1935 article as taken from  microfilm  at
       the Dallas Library follows.

                            Dallasite Patents Invention
                            Which He Claims Substitutes
                            Water for Gasoline as Fuel

       C.H. Garrett, Dallas inventor, gave a private demonstration Saturday
       of a recently  patented  contrivance which he said substituted water
       for gasoline as fuel for internal combustion engines.

       He said it broke up the water by  electrolysis  into  its  component
       gases, oxygen and hydrogen, using the highly explosive  hydrogen for
       fuel in the motor cylinder.

       The working model   operated  a  four-cylinder  engine  for  several
       minutes in the demonstration, at  varying  speeds  and  with several
       starts and stops.    Garrett  said  he  had  operated   the   engine
       continuously for more than forty-eight hours.

       The inventor said  the  idea  itself was not new.  He explained that
       difficulty had been encountered heretofore in attempts to store the

                                      Page 3





       dangerously inflammable hydrogen.   He  claimed to have AVOIDED that
       trouble by making and exploding the  gas in the SAME PROCESS without
       a storage chamber in which the flames from the motor cylinders might
       react.

       Water, he explained,  is  broken  down into its component  gases  by
       passage of an  electric  current through it from electrodes immersed
       in the water.  Hydrogen collects at  the negative pole and oxygen at
       the positive.  The hydrogen, Garrett said, is MIXED  WITH  AIR  (78%
       nitrogen and other gases...Vangard) and introduced DIRECTLY INTO THE
       CYLINDERS.

       The inventor said he had been working on the device for eight years,
       assisted by his  father,  Henry Garrett, traffic signal engineer for
       the city of Dallas, inventor of the  traffic  signal  system, now in
       use here and holder of several patents on such contrivances.

       Garrett said attachment   of   the   electrolytic   carburetor   and
       installation of a  generator  of  about  DOUBLE  normal  capacity to
       furnish power for the breaking down  of  the  water  were  the  only
       changes needed to convert a gasoline burning automobile into a WATER
       BURNER!

       He said the electrolysis chamber would have to VARY IN SIZE with the
       size of the  motor  used.  One of ABOUT A QUART CAPACITY  being  big
       enough for the ordinary automobile.

       He claimed instantaneous  starting  in  any  weather, elimination of
       fire hazards, cooler motor operation  and  fulfilling  of  all motor
       requirements in power and speed.  <end of article>
       --------------------------------------------------------------------
       Problems with Hydrogen

       One of the  problems  with the burning of hydrogen  in  an  internal
       combustion engine is  that  of  EMBRITTLEMENT.  This occurs when the
       walls of the cylinder become saturated with hydrogen ions.

       Corrosion Embrittlement - the embrittlement  or loss of ductility of
                 metals due  to  corrosion,  usually   as   a   result   of
                 intergranular attack which may not readily be visible.

       As you can  tell  from this definition, the metal becomes fragile or
       porous and can shatter or fracture  upon  impact,  thus damaging the
       engine.  There is  also the problem of excess heat.   However,  with
       the Garrett patent   and   verification  by  modern  research,  both
       problems have been overcome.

       As to embrittlement, the acidity of  water  has been found to have a
       great effect on the speed and the degree to which a  material can be
       dissolved.  Generally speaking,  the acidity of a system is measured
       in units called the pH (hydogen concentration),  ranging  from  1 to
       14.  Neutral solutions have a pH of 7.  A pH less than  7 means that
       the solution is ACIDIC and more than 7 means that it is ALKALINE.

       When a metal becomes corroded because of the acidity of the solution
       in which it  is  immersed,  it  is due to an interchange of hydrogen
       ions in the solution with the atoms  of the exposed metal.  When the
       solution is liquid,  the metal goes into the solution  and  hydrogen
       tends to plate out on the piece.

                                      Page 4





       Once a hydrogen  film  has  deposited  on  the exposed surfaces, the
       dissolving of the metal will cease.   Oxygen plays an important part
       in this process, because the oxygen dissolved in  water  will  react
       with the film  of  hydrogen  to  eliminate it by forming water which
       allows the corrosion process to proceed.

       The following ignition and Btu charts  help  to compare gasoline and
       other fuels to hydrogen.
       --------------------------------------------------------------------
                  Ignition Temperature of Fuels in Air
          Combustible     Formula       Temperature in Fahrenheit
        Sulfur               S              470
        Charcoal             C              650
        Fixed Carbon (coal)  C              765 to 1115 (depending on type)
        Acetylene            C H            580 to 825
                              2 2
        Ethane               C H            880 to 1165
                              2 6
        Ethylene             C H            900 to 1020
                              2 4
        Hydrogen             H              1065 to 1095
                              2
        Methane              CH             1170 to 1380
                               4
        Carbon Monoxide      CO             1130 to 1215
        Kerosine                            490 to 560
        Gasoline                            500 to 800
       --------------------------------------------------------------------
         Combustible  High Btu      High Btu.        % other gases for
                      per pound     per cubic foot   Combustion lb for lb
                                                     Oxygen  Nitrogen  Air
         Hydrogen      61,095          325            7.94    26.41   34.34
         Propane        2,524       21,669            3.63    12.07   15.70
         Butane         3,271       21,321            3.58    11.91   15.49
       --------------------------------------------------------------------
       When ignited, hydrogen burns in air with a pale blue  to  colorless,
       nonluminous flame, yielding   H20.    When   mixed   with  air,  the
       flammability limit is 4-74% hydrogen.   When  mixed with oxygen, the
       flammability limit is 4-94% hydrogen.  Care must always be exercised
       where there may  be  hydrogen  mixtures with air or  oxygen  because
       VIOLENT EXPLOSIONS may  occur.   So  we now understand that hydrogen
       burns with a very hot, explosive and yet invisible flame.

       To date, the cost has been prohibitive for providing commercial home
       type uses.  Not to mention the generally  accepted  yet quite faulty
       idea of a CENTRALIZED source of power distribution.   Such  reliance
       on central systems  simply  sustains the current need for each of us
       to be dependent and supportive of these very large institutions.

       Eventually, society will   see   how   freedom,   independence   and
       prosperity will come  from the LOCAL generation of  power  and  food
       wherever possible.

       The high temperatures  produced  when hydrogen reacts with oxygen or
       fluorine, plus the low molecular weights  of the product gases, have
       made hydrogen a  prime  fuel  for  rocket propulsion,  since  rocket
       thrust increases directly  with  the  temperature and inversely with
       the molecular weight of the exhaust gases.


                                      Page 5





       Some studies have  indicated  that  the  cost  of  transporting  and
       distributing hydrogen by pipeline  may  be  less  than  the  cost of
       transporting and distributing  electric power.  Presumably  existing
       natural gas pipelines and distribution systems can be adapted to the
       use of hydrogen.

       Although hydrogen has a net heating value of only 275 Btus per cubic
       foot, as compared  with  913  Btus  per  cubic foot for methane, the
       lower density and  viscosity of hydrogen  make  it  possible  for  a
       pipeline to deliver about the same amount of thermal  energy as with
       methane, at a somewhat higher compression cost.

       The thermal energy  in  hydrogen can be utilized more efficiently in
       home heating than natural gas, because  hydrogen  can  be  burned in
       nonconventional heaters, with  no  loss  of  heat,  since  its  only
       primary combustion product  is  water.  By using flameless catalytic
       heaters, nitrogen oxide   can  be   eliminated.    However,   oxygen
       depletion of closed spaces will still present a hazard.

       Hydrogen mixed with  gasoline  has  generated  as   much  as  a  50%
       improvement in overall  efficiency.   A  test  motorcar  obtained 19
       miles per pound of hydrogen.  However,  since liquid hydrogen weighs
       only 0.58 pound  per  gallon, the mileage figure was  11  miles  per
       gallon of liquid  hydrogen.   The  use of liquid hydrogen as a motor
       fuel thus presents  several  major   problems   despite   its  basic
       attractions.
       --------------------------------------------------------------------
       Hydrogen for home heating

       Using hydrogen for home heating requires some other  considerations.
       Because hydrogen burns  with a hotter flame, some design features of
       current heating apparatus would require changes.  The energy content
       per unit mass of liquid hydrogen  is  about  2.75 times greater than
       that of hydrocarbon fuels.  On the other hand, there  are  only  325
       Btus per standard  cubic  foot  of  hydrogen  as compared with about
       1,000 Btus per standard cubic foot  of  natural  gas.   The ignition
       energy of hydrogen is about 0.02 millijoules, which  is less than 7%
       that of natural gas.
       --------------------------------------------------------------------
       Hydrogen for lighting

       Lighting via the   use  of  hydrogen  can  be  accomplished  by  the
       phenomenon of CONDOLUMINESCENCE,  a  cold  process.   A  phosphor is
       spread on the   inside  of  a  tube  similar  to  the   conventional
       fluorescent lamp.  Upon  coming  in contact with the phosphor, small
       amounts of hydrogen combine with  the  oxygen  in  the air to excite
       bright luminescence in  the phosphor.  (Is this the  secret  of  the
       mysterious "perpetual lamps" as found in ancient tombs?)
       --------------------------------------------------------------------
       Electrolysis of water

       The theoretical power  required to produce hydrogen from water is 79
       KiloWatts per 1,000 cubic feet of hydrogen gas.

       Modern electrolyzers consist of:

           1)  Tank  cells with monopolar  electrodes.   Porous  diaphragms
               separate the alternate cathodes and anodes  to  prevent  gas
               mixing.  The anodes and cathodes are connected in parallel

                                      Page 6





               to keep the required voltage at approximately 2 volts and to
               permit high  current densities.  This arrangement requires a
               large floor area.
           2)  Bipolar  electrodes,  connected   in   series  and  suitably
               insulated.  The electrodes are cathodic on  one side; anodic
               on the  other  side.   This  arrangement requires less floor
               space, is more complex, and requires high voltages.

       High pressure can   also  increase   electrolyzer   efficiency.    A
       commercially available electrolyzer  operates  at  pressures  of  30
       atmospheres (about 450  PSI),  194 degrees F., requiring 300 amperes
       of electric current at 217 volts.   Other units operating at current
       densities of 800 amps per square foot can produce up to 4,400 pounds
       of hydrogen per hour.

       So, with all the above, we can see both the promise  and some of the
       problems with the use of hydrogen as fuel.  Personally, I was amazed
       while digging this  info  from  the  Van  Nostrand  Encyclopedia  on
       finding that hydrogen could be used to produce light.
       --------------------------------------------------------------------
       Further Info

       As stated above,  the  primary  problems   with   Hydrogen  are  the
       excessive heat and the embrittlement problem.

       Both problems have  been solved according to a NOVA  video  entitled
       Hydrogen - the  Invisible Flame.  The use of a stoichiometric mix of
       hydrogen to oxygen  (as  in Yull  Brown's  Gas),  with  outside  air
       eliminates the embrittlement problem while water vapor  sucked  into
       the intake cools the exploding gas mixture to reduce the heat.  Both
       of these techniques  were  pioneered  by Charles Garrett, tested and
       patented in 1935.
       --------------------------------------------------------------------
       The text of the Garrett patent follows.
       --------------------------------------------------------------------
       Patented July 2, 1935                                    2,006,676

                            United States Patent Office
                                     2,006,676

                              Electrolytic Carburetor
                        Charles H. Garrett, Dallas, Texas
                   Application July 1, 1932, Serial No. 620,364
                             Renewed November 30, 1934

                               5 Claims (Cl. 204-5)

       This invention relates  to  carburetors   and   it   has  particular
       reference to an electrolytic carburetor by means of  which water may
       be broken up into its hydrogen and oxygen constituents and the gases
       so formed suitably mixed with air.

       The principal object  of  the invention is to provide in a device of
       the character described, a mechanism  by means of which water may be
       readily decomposed into  its  constituents,  and  the   constituents
       intimately mixed with each other and with air.

       Another object of  the  invention  is  to  provide means whereby the
       electrolyte level in the carburetor may be maintained at a more or

                                      Page 7





       less constant level  regardless of fluctuations in fluid pressure at
       the fluid inlet of the carburetor.

       Another object of the invention  is  to  provide  means  whereby the
       relative amount of  air mixed with the hydrogen and  oxygen  may  be
       regulated as desired.

       Still another object  of  the invention is the provision of means to
       prevent loss of hydrogen and oxygen  gases  during  periods in which
       these gases are not being drawn from the carburetor.

       Still another object  of  the  invention is the provision  of  means
       whereby the hydrogen  and  oxygen resulting from electrolysis may be
       formed in separate  compartments,   and  a  further  object  of  the
       invention is the  provision  of  means to periodically  reverse  the
       direction of current flow and thereby alternate the evolution of the
       gases in the separate compartments, to be later intermingled.

       With the foregoing   objects   as   paramount,   the  invention  has
       particular reference to its salient  features  of  construction  and
       arrangement of parts,  taken  in  connection  with the  accompanying
       drawings, wherein: -

         Figure 1 is a view in vertical section of one form of carburetor.
         Figure 2 is a modified form.
         Figure 3  is  a  diagrammatic  view of a pole changer, showing its
                  actuating mechanism, and
         Figure 4 is a wiring diagram for  the  modified form of carburetor
                  shown in Figure 2.

       Continuing more in detail with the drawings, reference  is primarily
       directed to Figure 1 in which the reference numeral 1 designates the
       carburetor housing, which  is  preferably constructed of bakelite or
       other suitable insulating material.  The housing 1 is so designed as
       to divide the carburetor into a float  chamber  2 and gas generating
       chamber 4, connected by a fluid passage 3.

       Water UNDER PRESSURE  is  FORCED  into  the  carburetor  through  an
       opening 5 which  communicates  with  the float chamber 2 through the
       medium of the sediment chamber 6  and  the  needle  valve orifice 7,
       which is closed  by  a  needle  valve 8 when the device  is  not  in
       operation.  A float  9  surrounds  the needle valve 8 and is free to
       move vertically relative thereto.   Depending  from  the cover 10 to
       the float chamber 2 are two ears 11, located at spaced  intervals on
       opposite sides of the needle valve 8.  The members 12 are pivoted to
       the ears 11,  as  shown.   The weighted outer ends of the members 12
       rest on top of the float 9, and their  inner ends are received in an
       annular groove in  the collar 13 which is rigidly  attached  to  the
       needle valve 8.

       Within the gas  generating  chamber 4, a series of spaced, depending
       plates 14 are suspended from a horizontal  member 15 to which a wire
       16 has electrical contact through the medium of the  bolt  17, which
       extends inwardly through  the  housing  1  and  is threaded into the
       horizontal member 15.

       A second series of plates 18 is located  intermediate  the plates 14
       and attached to the horizontal member 19, and has electrical contact
       with the wire 20 through the bolt 21.

                                      Page 8





       A gas passageway  22,  in  which  a  butterfly  valve 23 is located,
       communicates with the gas generating  chamber  4  through an orifice
       24.  An air  inlet  chamber  25  has  communication   with  the  gas
       passageway 22 above  the  orifice  24.   A  downwardly opening check
       valve 26 is in control of the openings 27, and is held inoperatively
       closed by means of light spring 28.

       An adjustable auxiliary air valve  29 is provided in the wall of the
       gas passageway 22, which air valve is closed by the  butterfly valve
       23 when the  butterfly  valve  is  closed, but communicates with the
       outside air when the butterfly valve is open.

       The operation of the device is as follows :

       The chambers 2 and 4 are first  filled  to  the  level  'a'  with  a
       solution of weak sulphuric acid or other electrolyte  not changed by
       the passage of  current therethrough, and the opening 5 is connected
       to a tank of water, not shown.

       The wire 16 is next connected to  the  positive  pole  of  a storage
       battery or other source of direct current and the  wire  20  to  the
       negative pole.  Since  the  solution  within  the  carburetor  is  a
       conductor of electricity,  current   will   flow   therethrough  and
       hydrogen will be  given off from the negative or cathode  plates  18
       and oxygen from the positive or anode plates 14.

       The butterfly valve  23  is opened and the gas passageway 22 brought
       into communication with  a  partial  vacuum.   Atmospheric  pressure
       acting on the  top  of  the check valve 26 causes it  to  be  forced
       downwardly as shown  in  dotted  lines.   The  hydrogen  and  oxygen
       liberated from the water at the plates  18 and 14 are drawn upwardly
       through the orifice 24 covered by the check valve 30  where they are
       subsequently mixed with  air  entering  through  the openings 27 and
       through the auxiliary air valve 29.

       When it is desired to reduce the  flow  of  hydrogen and oxygen from
       the plates 18  and  14, the current flowing through  the  device  is
       reduced, and when  the current is interrupted the flow ceases.  When
       the butterfly valve 23 is moved to  closed position, the check valve
       26 is automatically closed by the spring 28.  Any EXCESS  GAS  given
       off during these  operations  IS STORED in the space above the fluid
       where it is ready for subsequent use.

       Water is converted  into  its gaseous  constituents  by  the  device
       herein described, but  the dilute sulphuric acid or  other  suitable
       electrolyte in the  carburetor  REMAINS  UNCHANGED,  since it is not
       destroyed by electrolysis, and the  parts  in  contact therewith are
       made of bakelite  and  lead or other material not  attacked  by  the
       electrolyte.

       The structure shown  in  Figure  2 is substantially the same as that
       shown in Figure 1 with the exception  that  the  modified  structure
       embraces a larger gas generating chamber which is divided  by  means
       of an insulating  plate  31 and is further provided with a depending
       baffle plate 32 which separates the  gas  generating chamber 33 from
       the float chamber  34  in which the float 35 operates  in  the  same
       manner as in  Figure  1.   Moreover, the structure shown in Figure 2
       provides a series  of  spaced  depending   plates   36   which   are
       electrically connected to the wire 37, and a second series of

                                      Page 9





       similar plates 38  which  are  electrically connected to the wire 39
       and are spaced apart from the plates  36 by the insulating plate 31.
       Gases generated on the surfaces of the plates 36 and  38 pass upward
       through the orifice  39a  into  the gas passageway 40 where they are
       mixed with air as explained in the description of Figure 1.

       A pipe 51 bent as shown in Figure  2  passes  downwardly through the
       housing of the carburetor and has a series of spaced  apertures  'a'
       in its horizontal portion beneath the plates 36 and 38.  An upwardly
       opening check valve  53  is  in control of the air inlet 54.  When a
       partial vacuum exists in the chamber 33, air is drawn in through the
       opening 54 and subsequently passes  upwardly  through  the apertures
       'a'.  This air tends to remove any bubbles of gas collecting  on the
       plates 36 and  38 and also tends to cool the electrolyte.  The check
       valve 53 automatically closes when  a gas pressure exists within the
       carburetor and thereby  prevents the electrolyte from  being  forced
       out of the opening 54.

       In order to  provide  for  alternate evolution of the gases from the
       plates 36 and 38, a pole changer 41,  shown in Figure 3 is provided,
       which is actuated periodically by the motor 42 which drives the worm
       43 and the gear 44 and causes oscillations of the member 45 which is
       connected by a  spring  46 to the arm 47, thereby causing  the  pole
       changer to snap from one position to the other.

       In operation, the carburetor shown in Figure 2 is connected as shown
       in the wiring  diagram  of  Figure 4.  A storage battery 48 or other
       suitable source of  direct  current   is  connected  to  a  variable
       rheostat 49, switch  50,  pole changer 41 and to the  carburetor  as
       shown.  Thus the rate of evolution of the gases can be controlled by
       the setting of  the  rheostat 49 and the desired alternate evolution
       of the gases in the compartments of  the  carburetor is accomplished
       by means of the periodically operated pole changer 41.

       Manifestly, the construction  shown  is  capable   of   considerable
       modification and such modification as is considered within the scope
       and meaning of  the  appended  claims  is also considered within the
       spirit and intent of the invention.

       What is claimed is:

         1)  An electrolytic carburetor including  an  anode and a cathode,
             float means  to  control  the level of the electrolyte  within
             said carburetor,   means  to  mix  the  gases  resulting  from
             electrolysis with air, and a  check  valve independent of said
             float means to control ingress of air to said carburetor.
         2)  An electrolytic carburetor including anode and cathode plates,
             a float  actuated  valve  in control of the electrolyte  level
             within said  carburetor, means to mix the gases resulting from
             electrolysis with air, a check valve in control of said means,
             a second check valve independent  of said float actuated valve
             to prevent loss of gases from said carburetor.
         3)  An electrolytic carburetor for producing mixtures of hydrogen,
             oxygen and air, including a series of spaced  and electrically
             connected anode  plates  partially immersed in the electrolyte
             within said  carburetor, a series  of  electrically  connected
             cathode plates  spaced  between  said  anode plates,  a  float
             operated valve in control of the electrolyte level within said
             carburetor, an air inlet to said carburetor and a check valve

                                      Page 10





             in control of said air inlet.
         4)  An  electrolytic carburetor for generating hydrogen and oxygen
             gases from water and for mixing said gases with air, including
             an anode  and cathode paritally  immersed  in  an  electrolyte
             within said carburetor, float actuated means  to  replace  the
             water consumed  whereby  to  maintain  a  constant fluid level
             within said device, means for  mixing the said gases with air,
             and a check valve in control of said latter means.
         5)  An electrolytic carburetor including an anode  and  a cathode,
             float actuated  means  to control the level of the electrolyte
             within said carburetor, means  to mix the gases resulting from
             electrolysis with air, a check valve in control of said latter
             means and  means  to  periodically  reverse the  direction  of
             current through said carburetor.
                                                   Charles H. Garrett
       --------------------------------------------------------------------
       Useful tips for experimenters

          The electrolyte  mixture  used  in  the  Horvath  patent  is  25%
          potassium hydroxide with 75% of distilled water.

          This is  a  good  initial mix  for  the  Garrett  patent  and  we
          recommend you  stick with what works, i.e. the  Garrett  idea  of
          battery acid  (weak sulphuric acid) in a beginning mixture of 25%
          sulphuric acid with 75% water (should  be  lakewater based on the
          newpaper articles...<grin>....).

          So many people want to jump from base level to a flying saucer or
          free energy generator without proving the basic phenomenon.  This
          causes a  loss  of  confidence and a waste of money  because  the
          "improved" design did not work and abandonment of the project.

          Other options include :
             1)  Magnets   -   either   alternating  fields  or  preferably
                 monopoles (i.e. north or south ONLY)
             2)  An Ultraviolet source to help break down the water
             3)  Injection  of sound either  as  a  "tickler"  or  at  high
                 amplitudes as in PUHA1 on KeelyNet, with  a  frequency  of
                 600 cps
             4)  Injection  of  sound  as Keely recommends at one or all of
                 the following: 620 - 630  -  12,000  -  42,800  cycles per
                 second
             5)  Textured  surfaces for the electrodes to  allow  the  more
                 rapid release  of  the  gases as they are formed, "oozing"
                 off easier into large bubbles
             6)  Large surface electrodes,  convolutions,  etc. for greater
                 generation of gases (lead electrodes best)
             7)  Heat  is  generated in the process, but  the  water  bonds
                 would be  broken much easier and faster if the electrolyte
                 chamber was heated
             8)  DC with an AC signal at  shock  excitation amplitudes, the
                 DC would keep the water excited, the AC would  shock it at
                 any of the above frequencies
       --------------------------------------------------------------------
       Caveats and safety warnings

            Hydrogen is EXPLOSIVE!

            Hydrogen is INVISIBLE WHEN IT IS BURNING!

                                      Page 11





            Resonance of  water molecules at high amplitudes could possibly
            EXPLODE the hydrogen/oxygen bond  (refer  DANART1 on KeelyNet)!
            In a  chamber  filled  with  water, this could  be  DISASTROUS,
            possibly leading  to a chain reaction!!  So take every possible
            precaution if you choose to experiment with sonics!!!
       --------------------------------------------------------------------
       The entire Garrett files are listed on KeelyNet as :

           GARRETT1.ZIP - contains ONLY this ASCII file

           GARRETT2.ZIP - contains this ASCII file plus all .GIF
                          diagrams below

           GARRETT1.GIF - the primary drawing
           GARRETT2.GIF - a superior design drawing
           GARRETT3.GIF - shows a polarity switching mechanism
           GARRETT4.GIF - a current controller circuit

       We here at Vangard Sciences/KeelyNet  and  our Associates believe in
       and practice the  free and open release of information  relating  to
       energy production, health   and   levitation   technologies.    Such
       information should not  be  monopolized,   suppressed  or  otherwise
       restricted from benefitting the public at large.

       If you choose  to experiment with this device, we  urge  you  to  be
       extremely careful and  would  greatly  appreciate  your  findings or
       comments.  We will also report on  what  we  find, perhaps with many
       minds and approaches, this can yet be a viable project.  Hybridizing
       of many techniques to achieve an end result is THE WAY!

       Imagine, one simple process that can provide:

          1)  heat - through the burning of hydrogen/oxygen
          2)  power for local energy generation - the explosive  energy  to
              drive a  piston  to drive a shaft to drive a generator.  That
              generator charges a battery  network  which feeds an inverter
              (converts DC to AC) to run your house
          3)  motive  power for transport power - explosive  energy  drives
              the piston to drive your vehicle
          4)  light   -  condoluminescence  -  hydrogen/oxygen  exposed  to
              phosphor coated surfaces for light generation
          5)  sound  amplification  -  flame   speakers   where   flame  is
              electrostatically deflected at audio rates to  produce sound,
              the hydrogen/oxygen  mix  is  generated  LOCALLY  rather than
              using bottled gases such as propane, butane, etc.

       Are we so stupid that we can't duplicate  today what was done almost
       60 years ago and improve on it?  Please pass this around freely!
       --------------------------------------------------------------------
         If you have comments or other information relating  to such topics
         as  this  paper covers,  please  upload to KeelyNet or send to the
           Vangard  Sciences  address  as  listed  on the  first  page.
              Thank you for your consideration, interest and support.

           Jerry W. Decker.........Ron Barker...........Chuck Henderson
                             Vangard Sciences/KeelyNet
       --------------------------------------------------------------------
                     If we can be of service, you may contact
                 Jerry at (214) 324-8741 or Ron at (214) 242-9346
       --------------------------------------------------------------------
                                      Page 12


