Brigandines 

 [Back to Main Page] [Brigandine Info Page] 

 Mid-15th Brigandine 

 Finished Jan. 1, 2004 

 This
brigandine is sized for someone who's height is 5'10" (178cm) with a 42" (107cm) chest and a
35" (89cm) waist. There is enough room under the brigandine for a
padded arming double or heavy wool doublet. The cover fabric is an upholstery weight velvet with a 100% silk pile
and backing fabric is a 16oz. hemp twill. All the plates are 0.035"
(~0.9mm) thick 1050 (0.5% carbon) spring steel except for the lung and
demi-lung plates which are 0.050" (~1.3mm) thick 1050 spring steel. All the plates have
been tinned and the brigandine nails are custom 14ga. brass cut nails
with a raised radiating line pattern on the head. 

 < Patterns for
this Project > 

 Instructions for this Project 

 Adjust the
pattern for the inner layer of the doublet as needed to make a cardboard
pattern for the size brigandine you wish to make. Cut the adjusted
pattern out of cheap but fairly heavy fabric such as canvas. Sew
the four panels of the upper body together using a very low stitch count
(i.e. large stitches) so that you can undo the stitching later. Make any
adjustments to the doublet pattern that are needed. While you're checking the pattern you will need
to wear whatever you plan on wearing under the brigandine. You
should also wear two extra T-shirts to account
for the room taken up by the plates. Sew the four peplums (lower
quarter panels) on and make any adjustments that are needed. Undo all
the stitching then use the panels to adjust your cardboard pattern. 
 If you look at
the original pattern for the inner and outer layers of the doublet you
will see that the panels for the outer layer extend past the panels of
the inner layer on some edges. When all the panels of each layer are
sewn together the outer layer will be attached to the inner layer by
wrapping about 3/8" of the edges of the outer layer around the inner
layer and sewing them in place. Some of the extra material on the outer
layer also adjusts of the slightly greater distance around the body
because it's on top of the inner layer. Use the adjusted pattern for the
inner layer to create a pattern for the outer layer. 
 Use the
adjusted pattern to cut out all 16 panels of the doublet. Sew the four
panels of the upper body together for the both the inner and outer
layers. Be sure to finish all the edges of the panels by stitching over
the edge or with a surger. Attach the inner layer to the outer layer by
wrapping about 3/8" of the edges of the outer layer around the inner
layer and sewing it in place. Finish the edges of all the peplum panels.
Attach each outer peplum panel to an inner panel in the same manor as
with the upper body except that the top edge of outer peplum panels
don't wrap around the inner panel. I find it easier to attach the
peplums to the upper body after all the steel plates except for the
waist plates have been attached. 
 You will need
to draw the pattern on the inside of the upper body using a pencil. The
brigandine plates are divided into 9 vertical plate groups. You will
need to first mark the dividing lines between these plate groups then
mark where the bottom edge of each plate will be for plates on the upper
body or where the top edge will be for plates on the peplums. The process of drawing the pattern
on the inside of the doublet will account for any difference in the
chest and waist measurements by making plates longer or shorter. If
the brigandine is sized for someone taller or shorter then 5'10"
(178cm) you may need to add or subtract plates to each group. If any
changes in size are made you will need to adjust the size of some plates
such as the lung, demi-lung, collar, arm hole, and shoulder plates. You need to adjust the patterns for the
plates as you're drawing the plate positions . 
 All plates on the
peplum overlap the plate below except for bottom plates. Most of the
plates on the upper body overlap the plate above it except for some of
the plates above the lung plates and on the shoulders. The waist plates
overlap both the plate above and below it. The
plate groups starting with the two in the front are overlapped by the
plate groups next to them, going back to the plate group over the spine,
which overlaps the plate groups to either side of it. 
 We will start
with marking the pattern on the two front panels of the upper body. Mark
the center of the bottom edge of each of the front panels. Note the
measurement from either side to the center point along the bottom edge.
Just below the arm hole measure across the front panel starting at the
seam under the arm hole keeping the ruler level with the bottom edge of
the panel and make a mark the same distance from the seam as the center
point on the bottom edges is from either side of the panel. This mark
should be a bit off center. Using a ruler draw a line from the center of
the bottom edge through the mark at the level of the bottom of the arm
hole and continue on until the line goes off the edge of the fabric.
This line divides the two plate groups on each front panel. Starting at
the bottom of the panel measure up the dividing line making a mark at
1", 2.25", 3.5", 4.75", 6", 7.25", and 8.5". Starting at the
bottom of the panel measure up the seam under the arm hole make a mark
at 1", 2.25", 3.5", 4.75", 6", 7.25", and 8.5". Starting at the
bottom front corner of the panel measuring along the front edge make a
mark at 1", 2.25", 3.5", 4.75", and 6". Draw horizontal lines from the
marks on the front edge and the seam under the arm hole to the marks at
the same distance on the dividing line. 
 Take the paper
pattern for the collar plate which is next to the front opening of the
brigandine and place so that the center of the nail holes along that
edge are 3/8" from the edge of the fabric. The top edge of the pattern
should be 1/16" from the edge of the fabric which forms the opening for
the neck. Draw a line along the side of the pattern that is away from
the front opening. Draw a light dotted line along the bottom edge of the
pattern then remove the pattern and draw a solid line 1/4" above the
dotted line. The solid line is where the top of the demi-lung plate will
be placed which the collar plates overlapping it. Take the paper pattern
that's used for the next three collar plates and place it so that the
edge near the front opening overlaps the previous collar plate by 1/4".
Repeat the process used for marking the edge placement on the first
plate. The last collar plate only has three side so you just have to
mark the lower edge with the dotted line and draw the solid line 1/4"
above that. 
 Take the paper
pattern for the demi-lung plate and lay it in it's place. Draw a line
along the edge that's towards the shoulder and the edge that is directly
away from the front opening. Take the paper pattern for the front
shoulder plate and place it with the edge on the solid line around the
collar and with it overlapping the demo-lung plate by 3/8". Draw a line
along the edge closest to the arm hole and draw a dotted line along the
short edge at the top of the shoulder. Take the paper pattern for the
back shoulder plate and place it with the edge on the solid line around
the collar and with it being overlapped by the front shoulder by 3/8". 
 There are 6
small plates which fill in the gap next to the lung plate and run up the
side of the arm hole to just over the shoulder. The pattern for the
small square plate is used for the last two plates in the back of the
shoulder. Take the paper pattern from the shoulder page that is in
the top center of the page. Place it in the gap next to the lung plate
and check to see that it fits when it's overlapping the lung plate by
about 1/4". The edge of the plate next to the arm hole should be 1/16"
from the edge of the fabric. Draw a line along the top edge of the
plate. Take the paper pattern from the shoulder page that is in the top
left corner. Place it next to the demi-lung plate so that the side with
groups of holes in it is 1/16" from the edge of the fabric. The
groups of three holes should be pointing up. The plate should overlap
the demi-lung plate and the plate below it by about a 1/4". The overlap
of the plate below it will be a bit off because the lung plate will be
dished before it's attached. Draw a line along the top edge of the plate
pattern and a dotted line along the bottom edge. Take the paper pattern
from the shoulder page that has three groups of three holes with one of
the groups facing the other two. Place this plate along side the back
shoulder plate with the groups of holes towards the arm hole and with
the one odd group of holes towards the back. The plate should overlap
the back shoulder plate by about a 1/4". Draw lines along the top and
bottom edges of the plate pattern. Take the paper pattern from the
shoulder page that is the second one from the top on the left side.
Place this plate along side the front shoulder plate with the groups of
holes towards the arm hole and check that it overlaps the plates above
and below it by about a 1/4". Draw dotted lines along the top and bottom
edges of the plate pattern. Take the pattern of the small square plate
in the bottom left corner of the shoulder page. Place it along the arm
hole behind the plate that overlaps the back shoulder plate. It should
overlap the plate above it by a 1/4". Draw a line along the edge of the
plate pattern that's away from the previous arm hole plate. Draw a
dotted line along the edge that's away from the arm hole then draw a
solid line a 1/4" closer to the arm hole. Use the same pattern to mark
in the same manor the position of the second small square plate that's
behind the previous one. 
 Now we will
mark the pattern on the two back panels of the upper body. At the bottom
edge make a mark 1" to either side of the seam that is over the spine.
Measure from that mark to the seam under the arm hole and mark the
center point between the two. Note the measurement along the bottom
edge from the seam under the arm hole to the mark you just
made. Just below the arm hole measure across the back panel
starting at the seam under the arm hole keeping the ruler level with the
bottom edge of the panel and make a mark the same distance from the seam
then make another mark the same distance from the mark you just
made. Using a ruler draw lines from the two marks on the bottom
edge to the marks above them at the level of the bottom of the arm hole.
Make marks along these two lines and the seam over the spine measuring
from the bottom at 1", 2.25", 3.5", 4.75", 6", 7.25", 8.5", 9.75",
11", 12.25", 13.5", 14.75", 16", 17.25", and 18.5". Make marks going up
the seam under the arm hole and along the edge of the arm hole at the
same distances from the bottom edge. Do not measure along the curved
edge of the arm hole, the marks need to be made with the distances
measured from the bottom edge directly below each mark. Draw horizontal
lines between all the marks which are the same distance from the bottom
edge. Make sure that the top two lines are even with the position of the
two small square arm hole plates. 
 Now we will
mark the pattern on the four peplums. Mark the center points on the top
and bottom edges of each peplum and draw a vertical line between them.
Make marks along the center line and both sides of each peplum measuring
from the top 0.75", 2", 3.25", 4.5", 5.75", and 7". Draw horizontal
lines between all the marks which are the same distance from the top
edge. 
 There are 83
plates which are 1.6" wide and the top and bottom edges are parallel. A
great deal of time can be saved by having steel cut to this width by a
machine shop or buying a 1.6" coil of steel. A 50 foot coil should be
enough for someone who wears a men's size large shirt. 
 Cut out all
the plates, finish the edges, and shape them. If you want to heat treat
and/or tin the plates see the instructions for that on the brigandine info page . 
 The plates
should be attached to the doublet using 14 or 12 gauge nails. The point
of the nail allows you to pass the shaft through the fabric without
ripping it. The first plates to be attached on the upper body are the
lung plates in the front over the chest. Be sure that the lung plates
have been shaped correctly so that you get a good fit. To either side of
the opening in the front of the doublet the last horizontal line is 6"
above the bottom edge of the panel. Position the lung plates with bottom
edge of the plate on those lines. The lung plates on the right side (if
you're wearing it) extends past the edge of the fabric. The edge of the
lung plate along the front opening needs to be placed so that the center
of the nail holes along that edge are 3/8" from the edge of the fabric.
To hold the plate in position pass a nail through the hole in the bottom
front corner of the lung plate and through the fabric. The nail head
should be on the inside of the brigandine. Then pass a nail through the
hole in the top front corner of the lung and through the fabric making
sure that the fabric between the two nails is pulled tight across the
lung plate. Repeat this process for the other three corners on the lung
plate making sure that the fabric pulled tight across the lung plate.
Remove the bottom front corner nail and insert a nail through the hole
left in the fabric and through the hole in the lung plate. The nail head
should be on the outside of the brigandine. Place the nail head on an
anvil and use a pair of nippers to clip off as much of the nail shaft as
you can. You may need to grind down the front of the nippers get in
closer to the plate. Using a 4oz. ball peen hammer peen the end of the
nail shaft into the shape of a low dome. Repeat this process for the
other temporary nails that are holding the lung plate in place. Fill in
the rest of the holes except for ones used to attach the straps and
buckles which hold the front of the brigandine closed. 
 Attach the
demi-lung plate above the lung plate. Attach the back shoulder plate
then attach the front shoulder plate which will overlap the back
shoulder plate and the demi-lung plate. Attach the collar plates
starting from the front opening and working your way back. Attach the
arm hole plate which goes next to the lung plate then attach the one
which goes next to the demi-lung plate. Attach the arm hole plate that
goes next to the back shoulder plate then attach the one that goes next
to the front shoulder plate. 
 Next attach
the four plates that are located under the lung plates. The plates need
to be attached one at a time from top to bottom. Use two temporary nails
on either end of the plates to hold it in place while attaching them to
the doublet. Always make sure that the fabric is pulled tight over the
plates before attaching them. Also be sure that you pull on the
inner and outer layers of the doublet evenly or you could end up with
excess fabric in one layer when to get the bottom edge or the seam over
the spine. 
 Continue to
attach the next plate groups on the upper body working your way back to
the plate group over the spine. When you start a new plate group first
attach the top most plate which doesn't overlap any other plates and
then work your way down the plate group. Please note that when you get
to the plate groups to either side of the group over the spine the first
two plates will have small square arm hole plates next to them. The arm
hole plates will overlap the plate they are next to by about a 1/4". 
 Attach the
plates to peplums starting with the bottom plates and working your way.
Be sure that two of the peplums have the right plate group overlapping
the left and that the other two peplums have left overlapping right. Sew
peplums on the bottom of the four panels of the upper body. Be sure that
the way the plates overlap on the peplum is that same way that they
overlap on the panel of the upper body you're sewing it to. Attach the
waist plates starting from the front on both sides and working your way
back to the spine. Attach the straps and buckles used to close the
front of the brigandine. 

 [Back to Main Page] 
 Copyright 2004 Craig W.
Nadler All rights reserved