Quantum Theory and Field Theory
            Comparison of Conventional Physics and Subquantum Kinetics

1. Conventional Physics:  Special and general relativity are disproven by the
Sagnac,  Silvertooth, and Ampere force law  experiments.
    Subquantum Kinetics (SQK): The ether concept is supported by the Sagnac,
Silvertooth, and Ampere force law experiments.

2. Conventional Physics:  Special relativity suffers from the twin clock
paradox and the light-source-velocity paradox.
    Subquantum Kinetics: This problem does not arise.

3. Conventional Physics:  Classical field theory is plagued by the
field-particle dualism.
   Subquantum Kinetics: This problem does not arise.

4. Conventional Physics:  Classical field theory suffers from the infinite
energy absurdity.
    Subquantum Kinetics: This problem does not arise.

5. Conventional Physics:  The wave packet model used in quantum mechanics to
model a subatomic particle has the problem of gradually spreading out.  Also
it cannot model a particle at rest.
   Subquantum Kinetics:  This problem does not arise.   Field patterns
composing a subatomic particle remain structurally coherent over time, even
when the particle is stationary.

6. Conventional Physics:  Is plagued by the nonintuitive wave-particle
dualism concept.
    Subquantum Kinetics:  This problem does not arise.  Subatomic particles
naturally incorporate wave aspects in their structure.

7. Conventional Physics:  Does not explain what charge and mass are, or how
they generate electric and gravitational fields.
    Subquantum Kinetics:  SQK explains what they are and how they generate
such fields.

8. Conventional Physics:   Fails to account for experiments showing that
gravitational fields may be electrostatically induced.  Considers antigravity
an impossibility.
    Subquantum Kinetics:  SQK explains such experiments.  Allows the
possibility of antigravity propulsion.

9. Conventional Physics:  Maxwellian electrodynamics fails to explain the
induction of Tesla waves, nonpolarized longitudinal energy waves.
    Subquantum Kinetics:  SQK explains the induction of both transversely
polarized  Hertzian waves and Tesla waves.

10. Conventional Physics:  Advocates the nonintuitive notion that natural
events are inherently indeterminate.  Accepts the Copenhagen Interpretation
of the Uncertainty Relation.
      Subquantum Kinetics:  Retains the commonsense notion of causality.
 Nonlocal superluminal interactions explain the EPR experiment results.
 Maintains that the Uncertainty Relation is merely a statement about the
limitations inherent to quantum level observation.

11. Conventional Physics:  Quantum electrodynamics and general relativity,
two pillars of conventional field theory, contradict one another, a problem
known as the cosmological constant conundrum.
      Subquantum Kinetics:  This problem does not arise.  All fields
(electrostatic, magnetic, gravitational, nuclear) are encompassed within a
single internally consistent theory.

12. Conventional Physics:  General relativity is fatally flawed in that it
allows the formation of cosmologically disruptive naked singularities.
      Subquantum Kinetics:   This problem does not arise.


                                           Cosmology and Astrophysics
            Comparison of Conventional Physics and Subquantum Kinetics

1. Conventional Physics: The big bang theory proposes the counterintuitive
notion that the universe emerged out of a state of nonexistence.
    Subquantum Kinetics:  This problem does not arise.  Proposes that
physical form emerged from a preexisting ether substrate.

2. Conventional Physics: Fails to explain how subatomic particles originate.
 It merely postulates that they form out of the vacuum.
    Subquantum Kinetics: SQK explains in detail how subatomic particles arise
from subquantum fluctuations in the ether.

3. Conventional Physics: Fails to explain why our universe is made up of
matter as opposed to antimatter.
    Subquantum Kinetics: SQK predicts a matter/ antimatter bias to particle
materialization.

4. Conventional Physics: Introduces the ad hoc assumption that the universe
is expanding, in order to account for the cosmological redshift phenomenon.
    Subquantum Kinetics: SQK naturally predicts a tired-light cosmological
redshift effect without introducing any ad hoc assumptions.

5. Conventional Physics: The expanding universe model fails to make a good
fit to astronomical data on four cosmology tests.
    Subquantum Kinetics: The tired-light static universe cosmology makes a
superior fit to astronomical data on all four cosmology tests.

6. Conventional Physics: Conventional cosmology fails to explain observations
of galaxies with redshifts greater than 4.0.
    Subquantum Kinetics: SQK accounts for the existence of galaxies at
redshifts many times higher than 4.0.

7. Conventional Physics: Conventional physics fails to explain why the Jovian
planets fall along the mass-luminosity relation for low mass stars.
 Attributes this to chance.
    Subquantum Kinetics: SQK explains this conformance by predicting that
planets and low mass stars are similarly powered by genic energy.

8. Conventional Physics: Fails to explain the source of the excess heat
coming from the Earth's core.
    Subquantum Kinetics: SQK attributes the excess heat from the Earth's core
to genic energy.

9. Conventional Physics: Fails to explain why the Sun radiates such a low
flux of neutrino particles.
    Subquantum Kinetics: SQK anticipates such a reduced flux by predicting
that two-thirds of the Sun's energy should be genic rather than nuclear.

10. Conventional Physics: Fails to account for the inflection (at 0.45 solar
masses) in the stellar luminosity function and for the accompanying upward
bend in the stellar mass-luminosity relation.
    Subquantum Kinetics: SQK explains this inflection and upward bend as
arising from the onset of fusion energy production and the formation of a
radiative core at the star's center.

11. Conventional Physics: Fails to adequately explain the phenomenon of
stellar pulsation.
    Subquantum Kinetics: The SQK genic energy prediction explains this
phenomenon.

12. Conventional Physics: Fails to explain the source of energy powering
supernova explosions and why supernova arise from blue giant stars.
    Subquantum Kinetics: The SQK genic energy prediction explains this
phenomenon.

13. Conventional Physics: Fails to account for the energy source powering
galactic core explosions.
    Subquantum Kinetics: The SQK genic energy prediction explains this
phenomenon.

                                           Philosophy and Metaphysics
            Comparison of Conventional Physics and Subquantum Kinetics

1. Conventional Physics: Is based on positivism.  Does not recognize the
existence of an  unobservable spiritual realm.  Contradicts mystical
teachings.
    Subquantum Kinetics: SQK is based on inference from general systems
principles.  Admits the possibility of an unseen realm.  Harmonizes with
mystical teachings.

2. Conventional Physics: Is the only science that hangs on to the mechanical,
closed-system model.
    Subquantum Kinetics: SQK adopts the open system model similar to that
eventually adopted in other sciences.

3. Conventional Physics: Is made up of a conglomeration of theories that are
sometimes incompatible with one another.
    Subquantum Kinetics: SQK consists of a unitary theory.
______________

 "Subquantum Kinetics: The Alchemy of Creation" by Paul A. LaViolette.
208 pages with notes * April 1994 * paperback; ISBN 0-9642025-0-6,
Lib. Congress No. 94-224685,  QC6.L355.

    Subquantum kinetics is a new approach to microphysics that utilizes
concepts from the fields of nonlinear chemical kinetics, irreversible
thermodynamics, and general system theory, replacing the current mechanistic
foundation of physics with a reaction-kinetic model.  This new approach
resolves a number of problems that plague classical and modern physics.  It
presents a revolutionary methodology that replaces the fragmented and
self-contradictory framework of modern physics and leads to a true unified
field theory.   It provides answers to fundamental questions such as: How
does matter and energy come into being and from what substrate does it arise?
 What does the interior of a subatomic particle look like, and how does it
generate an external field?
   Subquantum kinetics also has far reaching implications for astronomy and
cosmology.  It deals with intriguing questions such as: Is the universe
really expanding?  What produces the cosmological redshift?  Do planets and
stars spontaneously create matter and energy in their interiors?  Do black
holes really exist?  What makes stars pulsate?  Why do blue supergiants
produce supernova explosions?  What powers galactic core explosions?
  Subquantum Kinetics also provides some insights into the electrogravitic
connection that Brown was researching.  In particular, chapter 9 gives some
background information on Townsend Brown's electrogravitics.

   CONTENTS:  Overview of the Methodology.  Model G.  The Emergence of
Particles and Fields.  Fields and Forces.  The Cosmological Redshift.  Matter
Creation.  Genic Energy.  Stellar Evolution.  Electrogravitics.  Conclusion.
  Notes.  Bibliography.  Index.

