Guitar Columns - Moving On Up 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Ask The Expert 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , Guitar Columns , Moving On Up 

 Moving On Up 

 Guitar Column # 56 
 Published March 02, 2002 
 By David 
 Hodge 

 Print this 
 page 
 Email to a Friend 

 Bookmark 
 this page 

 Let's get serious and take a long look at a question we get 
 asked a lot how to take the next step in becoming a better 
 guitarist. It doesn't matter if you are a beginner or an intermediate 
 or even an experienced player, we all want to improve on the 
 skills that we have. And as I've said before, sometimes the 
 quickest way to improve is to simply be aware of what you 
 already know. 
 Here at Guitarnoise.com we're always up for an ambitious 
 undertaking. Over the next number of columns we'll be examining 
 the basic chord and fretboard theory that we already know 
 and then use it to take that next step in playing. You'll 
 find how easy the concept of "moveable chords" can 
 be and also learn your basic lead scales. We'll then examine 
 how these two techniques are used to come up with simple "tricks" 
 to create fills, riffs and leads. We will not only analyze 
 other guitarists' leads, we'll also come up with some of our 
 own. 
 To make matters even more interesting, these columns will 
 crossover with the upcoming lessons on both the beginners' 
 and intermediates' pages. And that's not to mention a few 
 surprise columns (and co-authored pieces) that some of you 
 have been clamoring for. 
 So let's hunker down and have some fun. To paraphrase our 
 Performance phrase, "Come on in and play!" 
 And, lest we forget: 

 These files are the author's own work and represents his 
 interpretation of this song. They are intended solely for 
 private study, scholarship or research. 

 Some of this initial stuff we have touched upon before. If 
 you're so inclined you might want to reread (or read for the 
 first time) either " Theory 
 Without Tears " or " The 
 Power of Three ." If you're really ambitious and want 
 a little taste of what we'll be exploring, then also read 
 " Multiple Personality Disorder ." 
 Just please do me a favor and make certain you know two things 
 before we move on: the fact that all chords start out with 
 a triad of root, third and fifth and the difference between 
 a major and a minor chord. Are we cool with that? Whether 
 you like it or not, in order to improve you have to learn 
 something... 
 To me, in all seriousness, here is the difference between 
 a beginner and an intermediate: 
 An intermediate guitarist is one that has started to think 
 for his or herself. 
 He or she makes observations and then experiments in coming 
 up with new things. It doesn't matter if it's as easy as a 
 change in a strumming pattern, playing a Dsus4 instead of 
 a D or playing a riff learned from one song during a different 
 song because it has the same chord progression as the first. 
 Whether this guitarist realizes it or not, she/he has taken 
 the first steps toward developing a personal style. 
 Think about this: what makes a guitarist "good" 
 or even just "interesting?" Often it is the little 
 touches being thrown in here and there. A good guitarist makes 
 the simple things interesting. He or she comes up with ways 
 to make you want to listen to things. It may be nothing more 
 than playing one chord in a different place on the fretboard, 
 which is what today's lesson is all about. I want you to forget 
 about everything but the first three strings of your guitar. 
 What we want to do is to look at the six basic chord shapes 
 that occur on these strings. 

 Okay, we know that the two most basic kinds of chords are 
 the major chord and the minor chord. We also know that they 
 both are constructed by using the root, third and fifth of 
 their respective scales or by starting with the root and stacking 
 the correct thirds onto each other. Are you with me on this? 
 Now let's think logically for a minute. If we want to play 
 a chord that has three notes on three strings of the guitar, 
 it stands to reason that each string has to have one note 
 of the triad, correct? If the root is on one string, then 
 the third and the fifth need to be on the other strings. That 
 seems reasonable. We can also come to another conclusion - 
 if we have each note on one string, then we will have three 
 possible ways to play chord. These will be based on upon which 
 string we've placed the root: 

 Remember that even though we have three (as yet unknown) 
 shapes, we will have two forms of each shape - one for the 
 major chord and one for the minor. But because you already 
 know the diffence between a major an a minor chord is in the 
 third (the root and fifth are still the same), you'll see 
 that there's not all that much difference between the two 
 forms of each shape. 
 The really cool thing is that you already know these shapes! 
 You just may not realize that this knowledge is already in 
 your mind and in your fingers! 
 FORM 1 - "the E Shape" 
 What do you, personally, know about your guitar? Do you just 
 make the chords according to the TAB or charts and think, 
 "I know how to make a D chord!" or do you also take 
 the time to know what notes make up that chord? A lot of people 
 think that music theory is hard, but most of it, the stuff 
 that can make you a better guitarist, has always been right 
 at your fingertips. 
 Think about the simplest chords you know, the ones we call 
 "first position" since they usually involve the 
 use of open strings and are formed close to the nut of the 
 guitar. Which of these chords have the root on the first string? 
 Most likely, you can think of two: G and E. Maybe you thought 
 of Em or F as well. Now let's look at these chords and remember 
 that, for today at least, we are only concerned with the notes 
 on the first three strings: 

 You can see that, of these chords, the G major (in the first 
 two forms) will not suit our purpose because it contains only 
 two of the three notes of the chord on the first three strings. 
 Depending on the variation you use, you will have either G, 
 B, G (two roots and a third) or G, D, G (two roots and the 
 fifth). But the G in its barre chord form as well as the first 
 position E, Em and F work fine. These chords all have a root, 
 third and fifth each on a separate string. I call these "E 
 Shape" chords. Here are the major and minor forms of 
 this shape and we've taken the trouble to show you where the 
 root (R), 3rd and 5th are: 

 Those of you familiar with barre chords will recognize them 
 as the top half of E major and E minor styled barre chords 
 (and if you want to see a chart of those, you can find one 
 in the column " But Then 
 Again... "). 
 These chords, or more precisely, notes taken from these chord 
 shapes, are used to do a lot of leads and fills, especially 
 when changing from V to I or I to IV in music. Here is an 
 example from the chorus of Van Morrison's Wild Night: 

 Even though this fill is played only on the E and G strings, 
 the E Shape chords of D, C, Bm and Am are what makes it work. 
 When playing a run like this, I find it easiest to anchor 
 your middle finger on the G string. This way I can use my 
 index finger for the E string on the major chords (D and C 
 here) and my ring finger for the minor chords (Bm and Am). 
 By minimizing my hand movement I get both smoothness and speed. 

 FORM 2 - "the D Shape" 
 Now let's find some chords with their roots on the B (2nd) 
 string. D, Dm and C fit the bill nicely: 

 To me, a C is a D shape chord. You've simply run out of room 
 on the neck of the guitar! Anyway, here are your D Shapes 
 for anywhere on the neck: 

 In the intro of the Rolling Stones' Wild Horses, you can 
 hear the lead guitar using notes on the E and B strings that 
 have been derived from the D shape: 

 Again, it's really important to remember that all these shapes 
 have both a major and a minor form. That's why there's a total 
 of six of them. In this short lead line, we use the minor 
 shape to get the two notes in the Bm and Am chords and then 
 revert back to the major shape for the G. Here, since we are 
 only using two strings, I find it easier to use the same fingers 
 for each shape - the middle finger on the B string and the 
 index finger for the E. 
 A lot of people like to use D shape chords. Here is the introduction 
 to The End Of The Line by the Travelling Wilburys: 

 Notice how in the last phrase, we use chords in both the 
 D shape (G, A and the final D) and the E shape (the first 
 D and the Em) to climb up the scale. If your guitar doesn't 
 have a cutaway and that last D shape is hard to reach, do 
 what I do and use the E shape D instead. It still sounds fine, 
 especially on a twelve string. 
 Also, on this particular example you can use your open D 
 and A strings to serve as a drone. The D shape lends itself 
 nicely to this, particularly if you're playing in the key 
 of D or D minor. 
 FORM 3 - "the A Shape" 
 The final shape has the root of the chord on the third (G) 
 string. A and Am are the chords you probably already use with 
 this shape: 

 Remember that when you slide this up the fretboard, you have 
 to account for the open E string by placing your finger on 
 it at the proper place, like this: 

 Probably the best known use of A shaped chords is in Stairway 
 To Heaven. This takes place in the "...and it makes me 
 wonder..." interludes: 

 This starts out with typical first position chords but then 
 the final four chords of the progression are played up the 
 neck. The G is a D shape and the D and C are done with the 
 A shape. 
 And finally, just to give you more to think about, here, 
 in Supertramp's Even In The Quietest Moments, you can see 
 all of these shapes in use: 

 And if you want to see a other good examples of the use of 
 these chord shapes, check out the next " Easy 
 Songs For Beginners " lesson, Love The One You're 
 With. And the upcoming song on the Intermediate's 
 Page , Supertramp's Give A Little Bit, explores this technique 
 with even more depth. I hope that you will check out these 
 lessons and see exactly where and how you can use these moveable 
 chord shapes to improving your own playing. Whether you are 
 looking for a way to come up with the same chord voicings 
 you hear on a recording or looking to make an arrangement 
 of a song, whether you are trying to come up with a little 
 riff or fill or even just use an old chord in a new way, these 
 three shapes will give a place to start learning more about 
 how to improve your playing. 

 Now it's good to point out that when you use just parts of 
 these shapes, you can blur the distinction between them. For 
 instance, in the earlier example Wild Night, I could say that 
 the chord progression D, C, Bm, Am (all in E shape) might 
 just as easily be D (E shape), C (E shape), G (D shape), F 
 (D shape). If you noticed this then pat yourself on the back 
 - you're starting to think. The fun of theory is seeing how 
 different chords relate to each other. After all, changing 
 one of the three note of one chord gives you a different chord. 
 This is one of the many things that we will be looking at 
 as we expand upon this topic, but for now, I think we'll stop 
 here to take in all that we've learned. 
 Whether you know it or not, you now have a really good reason 
 to learn where the notes on your fretboard are. Not to mention 
 learning the notes that go into a particular chord. Don't 
 go crazy thinking that you have to learn every note first. 
 Simply take the time to reflect on what you are doing. Take 
 the chords that you use most often - G, D, C, E, A, Bm and 
 such and learn where they are using each of the three shapes. 
 Here's Bm. for example: 

 Learn one a week if that's the easiest way for you. Write 
 out the ones you use a lot - it'll help them stick in your 
 mind if you figure them out yourself. And, believe me, you'll 
 learn it a lot quicker if you use it in a song that you play 
 a lot. Take Margaritaville 
 or one of the other lessons on the " Easy 
 Songs For Beginners " page. You'll be surprised how 
 quickly it comes to you when you use it for real instead of 
 just thinking about it. 
 As always, please feel free to write in with any questions, 
 comments, concerns or topics you'd like to see discussed in 
 future columns. You can either drop off a note at the Guitar 
 Forum page or email me directly at Dhodge8888@cs.com . 

 Until next time (and always)&#133; 
 Peace 

 David Hodge 2002-03-02 
 Previous 
 article in this series "Your Very Own Rosetta Stone" 
 Next article in this series 
 "Scaling The Heights" 

 Back to top 

 Copyright &copy; 2002 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. Masterlist. 
 Privacy Statement. 
 Contact Us.