jetneedle 

 THE DOGRIDERS PAGE 
 "THE JET NEEDLE" 

 Welcome! This is a story of how the DOGRIDERS discovered the NEEDLE JET for proper jetting. 
 Whitedog succesfully removed the throttle cable and disconnected the electric cable clips and hoses (he remembered to remember how they would go back) and he had this carburetor in his hand. 

 this carburetor is BLACK cause it has been painted, yours would probably be aluminum in color, because it is made of aluminum! 
 This is the TOP of the carb where it it says FLAT CR! 

 He said "I wonder what would happen if I removed this hex nut screw... 

 And I wonder what would happen if remove THIS hex nut screw! 

 Oh wow! The TOP COMES OFF! 

 OH NEAT! There is yet ANOTHER SCREW IN THERE! 
 "Lets take it out" he says. 

 OK! get the right HEX WRENCH! 
 "Turn it, turn it" he says. 

 When he tipped the carb, the needle fell out. 
 Se the NEEDLE NUT? 
 The NEEDLE IS THERE ALSO you can see this needle is on clip #6. 
 So White dog gets his new needle... ready to change it. 

 HERE IS A STOCK NEEDLE with the clip on #3 (THAT IS WAY TOO LEAN) 

 Here is a picture of BLUEDOG grinding the tip of the needle slightly so that he can 
 put it back into the slot with the nut, 
 you only have to grind the fat end if you put the clip on #6. 
 You have to grind it slightly because the distance from the clip to the fat end of the needle is too long for the screw to work properly. 

 If you put it on clip #5 you dont have to grind it down, but then you don't run as fast either.. 
 Our gytr racing needle we had to grind it. We have it on #6. 
 You can file it also , it is only aluminum and you only have to file of like 1/16 inch, not quite down to the first notch, then it works fine. 
 It doesnt hurt the needle at all. From the clip down to the skinny tip is what counts. 

 Pulling off the needle clip... to move it to proper position. 

 #4 always is better than #3 
 #6 is good if you have lots of mods only. 
 With pipe and K&N airfilter and cam mod use #6 
 Without cam mod use #5. 

 putting needle back in... 

 putting in the Needle screw nut. 

 then put in the screws... 

 and the needle rejet is complete. 

 BACK TO THE MAIN PAGE