whydoihavetojet 

 DADOG's WHY DO I HAVE TO JET? 
 My Answer: The YFZ-450 is a very powerful quad putting out an extreme amount of horsepower out of a 
relatively small cubic inch displacement! The average horsepower is 1 hp per cubic centimeter displacement, that is 
considered VERY GOOD POWER OUTPUT, and that should put the Yamaha YFZ-450 at around 27 horsepower.!!!

 Well, if it was at that horsepower you would never have to jet!

 What do you want? power? or no jetting?

 Since this quad is superefficient, then it will be trickier to jet RIGHT! 
If you don't want to jet at all, just leave it stock and you can still have fyn (slthough 
I would recommend a 45 pilot and clip #5 even at stock...

But, if you like MODS, then here ya go! lets learn to JET! It is FUN!

You HAVE to jet to get more power, so, my question is, why wouldn't you want to go faster?

And I know that answer too, you don't know HOW to jet! Right?

Well, good, cause we are here to show you how we did it!

LET's GO FASTER!!! 

 HERE IS A LETTER I RECIEVED TODAY... 
 Hey daddogrider. 
 Well, i rejetted for the first time this weekend. I was shocked cause it didn't take long at all. 
And i also installed the K&N. I have the baffle out, K&N, lid off, and cam mod. I rejetted at 
175 main, and a 48 pilot. I woulda jeted at 180 but the dealer didnt have it in stock. 
He also didnt have the YZ needle. Im not really sure how to move the needle. You know how you say to the 
4th clip or 5th. I dont know how...All I did to rejet was rotate the carb and unscrew that plug on the bottom...and 
the pilot and main were right there. I dont know where the needles at. So if u could help me with that and how to 
move it clipwise that would be great. And tell me if you think im still too lean and if that yz needle is a must. 
I just need to know how to put it in. also...the airscrew...i cant find the beast and when i do i wont have any 
clue how to turn it, which way to turn it, and how many times to turn it. ... But that pic didnt really help me...
do u think u could give me a step by step an

d maybe some pics...thanx. Your help is greatly appreciated. 

 (I would just like to say he made a wise choice on jets, I think it will run well. 
 He also did the cam mod, and has an oil leak, but all you have to do is take the top off, clean off the edges and use a bit of yamaha seal on the head... But that is another story. 

 Pilot jets come in 42(STOCK), 45, 48, 50, 52, 55 
 MAINJETS come in 158(STOCK), 160,162,165,168,170,172,175,178, 180 
 NEEDLES come in STOCK, GYTR #CNVQ and SUPER GYTR #CNVP. THE GYTR upgrade for the YFZ450 quad is the same STOCK NEEDLE as the DIRTBIKE 450. 
 OK EVERYTIME YOU UPGRADE YOU SHOULD TRY and REJET. GO UP YOUNG MAN! 
 When you increase the airflow through the carb, the fuel flows differently and your SIGNAL 
(correct fuel / air ratio gets messed up) so you have to change the JETS (the three little 
screws with holes in them) that let just the perfect amount of fuel into the engine. 
 What if I don't jet and add a air filter? Probably nothing but you will 
loose potential power, and you WILL run hotter, and you COULD melt your engine piston or rings 
and need an engine rebuild when it seizes up. So take the opportunity of adding the airfilter to rejet. 
People think the airfilter adds the power. It does NOT. It adds more AIR. AND the velocity changes so the 
fuel absorbs differently.

Large airfilters make the volume greater but the pressure is less due to less air restriction, I believe so 
not as much fuel gets 
injected, so the jet size must go up appropriatley (I think that is right, whatever the reason you have to rejet)
YOU have to add more fuel to make 
up for the extra air with lower pressure. The last thing you want in your engine is OXYGEN that is UNBURNED 
at 1000 degrees! 
That is BAD, aluminum burns, you know, and aluminum burns HOT. Get RID of that oxygen by adding enough fuel,
and that will also (SURPRISE) add more power! (Isnt that what you really want anyway? Not hot air, but more power!) 

 What does a pipe do? A pipe relieves the back pressure in a four stroke and lets more air through so 
now you changed your SIGNAL so now you should rejet. 
 What if I add a really good pipe and a really good airfilter? You need to change the jets even more for 
even more power. I would say piot 45 Stock needle on #6 or Gytr needle on #4 and 175 main. 
 What if I just take the baffle out? You need to rejet higher by 5-10 units on the mainjet 1 clip on the 
needle and 1 size on the pilot upwards to get more power. That would be a 45 pilot and a 168 or 170 mainjet 
and gytr #4 airscrew 1.5 
 What if I take the air filter out? Yon need to rejet to get more power by about 5-10 unites on the mainjet and 1 
size on the pilot upwards. Piot 45 or so stock clip #4 or 5 mainjet 168-170 

 Ok what size jets do I need? 
 For the YFZ450 you need anywhere from 165 Main jets to 215 mainjets depending on your modifications. 
BUT USUALLY YOU WILL BE AROUND 170 give or take 5! 
 For the PILOT jet which affects the low RPM range you need to be anywhere from 45 pilot to 50 pilot 
 And the needles are variable, anywhere from clip #3 to clip #6 stock needle depending on mods. 

 The day you buy the quad, the YFZ-450 quad COMES WITH 42 pilot (too lean!) clip #3 and 158 MAINJET (TOO LEAN!) 

 You SHOULD BE: 
 EXAMPLES STOCK 450 is 45 pilot, 165 mainjet Clip #3 on the needle. Air screw 1.5 turns 
 Take the airbox lid off you will be around 45 pilot Clip #4 168 Mainjet Airscrew 2 turns 
 Take baffle out ALSO you should be around 45 pilot Clip #5 Mainjet 168 airscrew 2.5 turns 
 Cam mod ALSO on top of that, 48 pilot Clip #6 Mainjet 172 and airscrew 1.5 turns 
 That is generally correct. 
 Then you drive it and look at the plugs, we will have more on that later, today I am just going to show you the 
basics of jetting. If the electrodes are black then you re too rich, go down in jet numbers. if the electrodes are 
WHITE you are too lean, go up in jet numbers. 

 YOU CANT HURT THE MOTOR GOING TOO HIGH, you may foul a plug and smoke like a black tornado if you are way high. 
Just jet down.,. 

 IF YOU AR TOO LEAN you could ruin your motor and it will loose power and suddenly seize up. 

 When you are too rich the motor stumbles and chokes like if you had the choke on. 
 When you are too lean it doesnt GO RIGHT AWAY when you give it gas! It HESITATES and BACKFIRES a lot and the 
pipe exhaust glows red hot. 
 Then your motor may melt down, it gets too hot when too lean. The 450 glows light orange in the dark. Bright 
red is too hot. 

 DADDOG TRICK if your bike runs slightly better when you turn the choke on, you are TOO LEAN go up on the jets. 

 THE DADOG SECRET TO JETTING IS THIS! CHANGE YOUR JETS ONE AT A TIME UNTIL IT RUNS REALLY REALLY GOOD! 
 This is not rocket science. 

 With several mods, NEVER GO BELOW 165 on the mainjet. Never go below 45 pilot never go below clip #3 on the stock needle. 

 There can be no better way than this, to jet your quad then try it out. 
WHEN YOU RUN YOUR BEST YOU ARE JETTED YOUR BEST! 
 Every quad is different. Every jetting is different, only YOU can figure out your best jetting. 

 If you had your shop mechanic jet PERFECTLY he would charge you 3000 dollars, cause it will take a 
few days of driving, and at 50 bucks an hour you have to learn this yourself. 
 Or you can just run it stock and get whooped by every other 450. 

 Jetting is the process of increasing the fule main jet or the needle jet or the pilot jet. 
This sit in the carburetor as the pictures below will show you. Whenever you upgrade the quad , you need 
more fuel because you have more AIR, there has to be a proper ratio, and when the SPEED of the air or the 
PRESSURE of the air going through the carb changes, your gas jets need to change. 
 The gas jets are littl HOLES that squirt gas into the carb. Too much gas and it runs rich and rough and 
even smokes. 
 To little and it runs really HOT and can freeze up your quad. 
 It is safer to go too rich rather than too lean. 
 The YFZ450 comes very lean from the factory, they even passed the california green sticker test so you KNOW 
it has to be lean. 

 Do I need to jet? Answer: Yes. If you don't it is bad for the motor and you don't go as fast if you run lean, 
because you don't have as much gas. Fuel is power. 

 If you jet too high, you will loose power, so the trick is to jet just right.. 
 Ok, I want to buy pipes and airfilter but I don't wanna jet cause I don't know how really... ANSWER: Then learn 
how, here is some pictures, and go to a great FORUM for the YFZ450 like www.bluetraxx.com or www.yfzcentral.com and 
you can ask other riders and some experts what other things you can do for your quad. You can also ask your dealer, 
he knows how to jet. 
 This web site is for people who have ALREADY DECIDED what to jet and want to do it, but don't know how or havent 
opened a carb before. 

 I WILL BE ADDING MORE PARTS, but for today I just have Pictures of the three jets and how to get to them! 

 A STOCK YAMAHA should have the GYTR jet kit installed from the day you buy it. Take the 45 pilot from the kit 
(largest) and the 168 Main (Largest) and put the GYTR NEEDLE on clip #3 if your bike is stock.#4 if you have pipe and mods to start out with.

 OK I'm READY i GOT MY JETS and how do I do it? 

 WHERE IS THE NEEDLE JET? 
 OK my first page is called 

 THE JET NEEDLE 

 THE PILOT JET 

 THE MAIN JET 

 WHY DO I HAVE TO JET? 

 BACK TO HOME