Family Pictures 

 Site Menu 
 Home 

 Hey Mom! 
 You wanted to see what the house looks like, so I've put 
together this outdoor tour. Let's begin with 
driving up the driveway where you will see our fence on the right, including 
the section Justin and I repaired this summer, a bit of our house over the 
fence, and the neighbor's car at the end. When we look out our front 
window we see the bamboo that is off to the left. 
 From the long, common, drive you can walk up our
 front walk . In the window you will see our 
14 year old cat, Alice , asleep 
on her blanket. The red spot is a leaf from the plum tree, not to worry. 
 Back to the driveway, if we continue down and look
 back , we see some of the 
juniper, pine and here-to-stay ivy. Wait, is that Alice in the window? 
WHAT a surprise! 
 "BUT," you say, "these are all fall pictures, what does it 
look like in the winter?" Aha! This one time I am ready for your 
question! Looking
 back , last winter. 
 Whoops, couldn't stop turning, here's the
 driveway , the neighbor's 
fence, and their leafy bamboo, too. Oops, now I'm back on track,
 here's our actual 
driveway as seen from our neighbor's driveway, the Odyssey, a remarkably clean 
garage (thanks to my graphics editing program!), and the front of the house, 
again. 
 Stepping past the Odyssey, here's a shot of the
 front yard . Moving to the 
walkway and looking off to my right you see the Japanese Maple centering the
 landscaping . That's 
pretty much it for the front yard. 
 As I go through the gate I am confronted by the
 side yard . Covered in gravel, 
it serves as a staging area for fence building, yard waste collection, and 
Christmas tree storage from January through March. Now what is that in the 
distance? A Lavaterra which has 
shed half its leaves! Yet it holds forth one, solitary
 flower . 
 As we take our gaze off that one lonely flower and look to 
the right we see the expanse of the
 back yard . What you don't 
see in the fall are the many bulbs planted along the length of the fence. 
Well, were planted. The squirrels come along and eat them then climb atop 
the picnic table for a refreshing drink . 
 Here is a little better view of the
 back of the house . When stepping out of 
the patio door we see the fledgling wall of 
thin-leaf bamboo . Notice how we don't see the neighbor's open 
garage with piles and piles of cardboard boxes, rusted storage containers, and 
assorted stacks of papers and magazines. All topped off with a lovely 
rusted bird cage. To gain a more complete understanding of our neighbor's 
decorative taste, page back to the Lavaterra 
picture, look in the background and see the lovely blue tarp. This is 
their attempt at sprucing up the place. And, believe it or not, it is an 
improvement. You see, they put in a hot tub, around which they began to 
frame in 4 sliding glass patio doors to protect them from the wind, yet afford 
them a full 360 view. Unfortunately, it also afforded US a full view. 
THANK YOU, thank you for the blue tarp. The lovely blue tarp. Which 
leads back to the Lavaterra, fast growing, up to 7 feet tall. Why, oh why, 
does it have to lose its leaves in the winter? 
 Well, there's a whole other side yard, but I seem to have 
failed to take any pictures of it. If I get home in time this week, I'll 
add them. 
 Meanwhile, how about looking at some 
trees ? 
 That pretty much wraps up a five cent tour. Hope you 
enjoyed it. While you were reading this, I was cleaning out your cupboard! 

 Last updated: May 24, 2001 

 Comments?