The Washington Air Search and Rescue Home Page 

 W A S A R

Washington Air Search And Rescue

 "Volunteers Working So That Others May Live"

This page is dedicated to Air SAR volunteers who serve the
citizens of Washington state in a variety of airborne ways.
We invite you to join, participate and contribute.

 UPDATED June 22, 2007

 Table of Contents 

 What and Who is WASAR? 

 What do we do? 

 Air Search and Search Support 

 Disaster and Emergency Services
Airlift 

 Search practice and currency training exercises

 How can YOU help? 

 Donate!
 Join!
 Be Prepared! Get some Training
 and carry Survival Gear 

 News, new items 

 January 7, 2004 Newsletter from Tom Peterson, State SAR Coordinator> Urgent Fraud Warning affecting SAR organizations -->

 WASAR Apparel (for Christmas) 
 Contacting WASAR.... 
 WASAR supports N.W.Aviation Show ->>
 WASAR helps Search Safety!
 Search and Rescue Training 
Schedule 
 -->

 High-Tech SAR with Infrared; will it work? 

 Some friendly SAR links 

 What WASAR members do in their SPARE (???) 
time The Laird Super Solution.
 -->

 What and Who is WASAR? 

WASAR was formed in 1993 as a 501C3 (tax deductible,
charitable corporation) by the
 Washington Pilots
Association (WPA) . WASAR was established to support Air
Search and Rescue activities
directed by the 
Washington State Department of Transportation -- Aviation
Division (WSDOT-AD) .

We are made up of several hundred state qualified search pilots,
observers and air vehicle owners who live in or near
Washington and who want to do something meaningful in
service of the state's citizens. Our membership include
everything from young student volunteers to 25,000 hour
flight test pilots. The Civil Air Patrol (CAP) is among our
ranks, along with SAR-qualified WPA, Military and County
Sheriff personnel.

 If you are interested in more detail, please inspect the 
 WASAR Bylaws . These resulted from some
hard work by WASAR Board members Al Banholzer, Sandy Robinson and
Tom Jensen and may be useful to those interested in starting a
similar organization in another state.

This is a typical WASAR member-owned airplane available for
search and other work. It's one of the best bargains that
Washington State citizens could ever hope for!! (1956
Cessna
180 belonging to Nancy Jensen)

Over 200 privately owned air vehicles are available at the
call of WSDOT-AD, including turbine helicopters,
floatplanes, and fixed-wing singles and twins. Installed
equipment includes DF gear and even some installed TV
equipment used for disaster assessment work.

 Return to Table of Contents 

 What do we do? 

 Air Search and Search Support 

WASAR's prime role is to support Washington
State Department of Transportation -- Aviation Division
(WSDOT-AD) in their SAR and Emergency Management
airlift role.

 Members and their equipment are available 24 hours a day
to support Air SAR activities at the direction of WSDOT-AD.

 Search flying is tiring, demanding work which requires
careful teamwork if it is to be done effectively. During a
search, a pilot-observer team might typically be assigned a
7.5 minute by 7.5 minute (about 5 by 7.5 nautical miles) grid
box. Even with two observers aboard, this will take over two
hours to cover thoroughly.

 Most Search flying is done at a 500-1000' altitude and 70-
80 knots, presenting a picture like this:

 Tremendous concentration is required! So you can
actually see the airplane wreckage in this picture,
the lower photo was from only 200', taken with a telephoto
lens.

WSDOT-AD's site. -->

 Return to Table of Contents 

ELT (Emergency Locator Transmitter) Locates

The above piece of installed electronics is an LPer Direction Finding
radio receiver. More to follow when time permits. 
 (in work)

-->

 Disaster and Emergency Services 
Airlift 

WASAR provides emergency airlift and other special services
at the request of WSDOT-AD to support state and county
agency needs during natural disasters and preparadeness
drills. The video image below is of a breached levee on the
Cowlitz River in February 1996.

 Survival Education and Equipment 

Survival classes will be offered again at the 2004 Mountain Flying 
Courses. 

-->

EVERYBODY who flies in Washington should carry minimal survival gear!
My "Fanny Pack", always carried on my body is shown below.

 This little bit of gear could save your bacon sometime! In addition,
I always carry a full survival kit, with first aid and water, in the back.
This weighs about 40lbs but is very complete as listed below. Write me at:
 c180tom@eskimo.com if you have
questions, suggestions, or favorites you think should be carried.

 By request, here's a listing of my favorite 40# survival kit.

 Some Back Country Survival Gear Ideas 

 Item 
 Weight 

 Plastic milk case organizer 
 3.00# 

 100ft. Parachute Cord 
 0.25# 

 Wool watch cap and mitts 
 0.25# 

 Sleeping bag 
 4.00# 

 Poly Tarp with grommets 
 1.50# 

 Well-equipped 1st aid kit w/ triage instruct. 
 7.25# 

 Folding shovel 
 1.75# 

 Axe with sheath (and file if not in tools) 
 3.00# 

 Water 
 5.00# 

 Water filter 
 0.50# 

 Toilet paper, wringable towel, glasses, 
bee sting kit, prescription medicines (if needed), 
USAF survival mirror, pen, compass 

1.00# 

 Fishing lines, hooks, weights, lures, eggs 
 0.50# 

 Hunting and Swiss Army Officer's knife 
 0.75# 

 Sunscreen, brass wire for critter snare 
 0.25#td>

 Flashlights with extra batteries 
 1.00# 

 Peanut butter or other calories (12,000 min.) 
 2.50# 

 Red aerial flares, smoke, fusees, whistle 
 2.25# 

 Waterproof matches, cotton w/ vaseline 
 0.25# 

 Emergency Survival Handbook 
 - 

 Mess kit, Sterno and folding stove /td>
 1.75# 

 Bear repellents (.44 and pepper spray) 
 4.00# 

 Total 
 40.75# 

 The above is in addition to the fanny pack, and 
could be lightened with some careful (and 
more expensive) choices. I collected this list by 
starting with Canadian and Alaskan (including 
Alaskan Airmans Handbook) recommendations, 
then adding or subtracting depending on 
environmental or legal conditions (Canada disallows 
handguns, but non-mace pepper spray and 
long guns are okay), and actual experience using the gear. 

 The gear listed in the table is shown at left below, and most of it fits 
in the "organizer" as shown on the right. Unlike the fanny pack, this gear
must be viewed as "camping equipment", because it is stored in back and 
might not survive a crash/fire from which only you escape. (Thus the fanny pack.)

 Please write with your comments and suggestions, but CARRY SURVIVAL GEAR! 

 WASAR Apparel Available 

 Cool WASAR gear is avalable to provide brand identity and show
a professional appearance. This apparel is available by contacting Tom
Nesko at 425-821-2780 or email 
tom.nesko . Hats are $5, Vests are $10 (partially subsidized by 
WASAR for safety-the vests have reflective tape and are highly visible.)

 Search Practice and Currency Training Exercises

 Practice Searches as shown in the 
 Search and Rescue Training Schedule are 
one means by which pilots may maintain required currency and 
sharpen their skills, all to improve safety during the difficult 
conditions of an actual search. Some activity (a class, an actual 
search, an ELT "hunt", or a Practice Search) and a pilot checkride
 is required at least every 
two years to maintain your current pilot status on the Search 
Specialty List used for callups. 

WSDOT-AD has significantly increased the number of Practice Search 
opportunities, as announced in their Flight Plan magazine. WASAR 
supports these Practice Searches in a number of ways.

 Here are some photos from a recent SAREX. 

NOTE TO TOM AND/OR MATT: PETERSON HAS RECENT SAREX PIX -->

 How can YOU help? 

Donate!

WASAR is a 501C3 corporation. Please send your tax-
deductible donations to: 

Washington Air Search And Rescue 
P.O. Box 2174 
Renton, WA 98056 

Donations may be made to benefit WASAR in Washington via your
Boeing Employees Good Neighbor Fund or United Way "Designation".
Such designation is painless and directly benefits Air SAR. WASAR
is approved for "designation" by Boeing Employees Community fund
and various Federal, County and City Combined Campaigns. Look for
us in the alphabetical listing of your workplace charitable 
campaign.
 You may also donate online at the Local Independent Charities
secure website www.lic.org . 

We are also urgently seeking donations of serviceable hand-held
aircraft band radios for use in official agency helo operations.

 (in work)

-->

 Return to Table of Contents 

Join!

You may join WASAR by attending a WSDOT Orientation course
which will explain "the system" and help you learn
if you want to make that important committment to help.

 At that time, you may apply to the state and then take the ASAROC 101
basic mission aircrew course to gain qualification as an observer.

 With the requisite experience, a flight check with a designated 
mentor pilot can qualify you as a search pilot. 

Classes and checkrides are provided by the 
 Washington State 
Department of Transportation -- Aviation Division (WSDOT-AD) . 
Call 1-800-552-0666 to register for a free class and to verify the 
unofficial information listed in the 
Schedule --> schedule listed below.

We also invite you to join the 
Washington Pilots Association (WPA) for your benefit in
association fun, "networking" and neat things to do with your
airplane. 

In addition to launching WASAR, the WPA is there to promote
progress and development of aviation in Washington, to promote
flying safety and education , and to encourage upkeep of aviation facilities.

To join the WPA, pick up a free copy of the WPA WINGS magazine or
a WPA application at your local FBO, or call 1-800-WPA-FLYS.

 WASAR Supports N.W. Aviation Show

WASAR and the WPA again shared a booth at the N.W. Aviation Show
in Puyallup, February 2006. Thanks to volunteer efforts by several
folks, we had a nice, professional-looking display with fancy track
lighting, all on the cheap. The booth was well manned and womaned by 
the usual trusty volunteers
 eager to talk to pilots and the public.

Above are Tom Jensen and Peggy Richcreek greeting visitors at the 2002 show.

 Contacting WASAR humans...

WASAR acts at the direction of WSDOT-Aviation Division, who may be
contacted at 1-800-552-0666. If for any reason you are unable to 
contact them, for EMERGENCY purposes, my pager is 206-626-1612.

For other contact, please call 253-833-6777

WASAR helps Search Safety!!

 Regular Practice Searches are normally an out-of-pocket 
in the face of other living expenses. WASAR now regularly will 
be paying for sortie fuel at search practice exercises. Our
intention is to improve the safety of SAR flights by making Practice 
Searches more affordable. 

WASAR Supports the Wenatchee Mountain Flying Course

 WPA president Jim Smith is
working with Wings of Wenatchee's Al Hunter on the possibility of 
a public MFC next spring. Please contact them to offer expressions
of interest.

In 2003, nearly 60 pilots were exposed to the fun and 
valuable training of flying in the mountains.
They are now better equipped to safely enjoy our wonderful back 
country from a perspective available to few!. During the 2002
Mt. Flying Seminar, over 100 folks also participated in the
ground school, FAA seminars, a safety or survival course. Come 
fly with one of
the instructors in the beautiful peaks around Wenatchee.
 Call 1-800-552-0666 to register and pick a schedule slot.
-->

 Return to Table of Contents 

 2006
 SAR Training and Education Opportunities

Since 911, Federal requirements for Air SAR and other volunteers
have been tightened. This means that volunteers will have to agree
to a background check and some basic training such as the FEMA IS-700
course, available online. The Aviation Division is working through 
the initial applications (sent to current WASAR and CAP folks) so
training is temporarily on hold.

Standard Operating Procedures are being developed as are classification
 ("Mission Pilot Typing") of our pilots.

 Excellent Search and Rescue classes for air crew and search base 
management are among those taught FREE by WSDOT-AD. 

Completing the interesting weekend Mission Aircrew course prepares 
and qualifies you as an observer. A subsequent flight checkride with 
an Aviation Division-approved instructor is required for qualification 
as a search pilot. Call WSDOT-AD toll-free at 1-800-552-0666 to confirm
schedule information or to register.

WAC 468-200 also requires that pilot have logged at least 200 hours
of total time for flatland (altitudes below 5000') search pilot
operations, and at least 475 hours for all other SAR assignments.
(Other factors may be taken into account in determining pilot 
qualifications.)

These are the opportunities scheduled as of January 2005,
subject to change.
Check the state homepage at
 WSDOT-AD for updates. 
Contact the SAR duty officer at the above 800 number for further information.

 Note changes! YOU MUST SIGN UP IN ADVANCE! PLEASE CALL 1-800-552-0666

 2006 Search and Rescue Training Class 
Schedule 

 Date 
 Location 
 Activity 

 January 14, 2006 0900-1200 
 Everett, Paine Field 

 FEMA IS-700 Class 

 January 14, 2006 1300-1600 
 Everett, Paine Field 
 WSDOT Orientation Class 

 January 21, 2006 0900-1200 
 Olympia-Location TBD 
 FEMA IS-700 Class 

 January 21, 2006 1300-1600 
 Olympia-Location TBD 
 WSDOT Orientation Class 

 January 29 CLASS CANCELLED DUE TO C421 SEARCH 
 Washougal, Silver Star SAR 
 FEMA IS-700 Class 

 January 29 CLASS CANCELLED DUE TO C421 SEARCH 
 Washougal, Silver Star SAR 
 WSDOT Orientation Class 

 February 4, 2006 0900-1200 
 Pasco Columbia Basin Col. 
 FEMA IS-700 Class 

 February 4, 2006 1300-1600 
 Pasco Columbia Basin Col. 
 WSDOT Orientation Class 

 February 18, 2006 0900-1200 
 Ephrata Airport (CAP Academy) 
 FEMA IS-700 Class 

 February 18, 2006 1300-1600 
 Ephrata Airport (CAP Academy) 
 FEMA IS-700 Class 

 February 19, 2006 0900-1200 
 Spokane Felts Field (CAP Building)
 FEMA IS-700 Class 

 February 19, 2006 1300-1600 
 Spokane Felts Field (CAP Building)
 WSDOT Orientation Class 

 *Mission Aircrew Mountain Operations Course
 ***WASAR will pay for your fuel (1 sortie)!! 

 Please see WSDOT-AD website for legal fine print, etc.

* Bring to class a current Seattle Sectional and a plotter or straight
 edge. 
** Prerequisite: Must have already taken Mission Aircrew Course. 
*/* This emergency practice should be an annual event..
***Prerequisite: Must already be a qualified Mission Pilot and have
 at least 475 hrs pilot time. 
*/* NOTE: These two dates are suspended to allow time to evaluate and 
improve certain training activities to better serve our volunteers.
-->

 Rogersberg is OPEN until November 15, 2007! 

The fish are in danger now!! 
Working with the BLM and WSDOT-AD, volunteers did something great for 
backcountry aviation.
Our favorite airstrip is closed per our BLM agreement 
to avoid the possibility of eagle roosting.. 
There are some pictures showing
volunteers working to reopen our fishing hole. 

 An Infrared SAR experiment 

Could long-infrared (3-5 micron wavelength) thermal imaging 
equipment benefit our air SAR work in a practical fashion? Check
out the report and tell us what you think about this
 aerial infrared experiment 
by a few WASAR volunteers.

 WASAR is also experimenting with airborne ATV as might aid
disaster assessment. If you have some expertise and would like to 
help, please contact us at the link below.

 Other friendly SAR links 

 Some good people to know, should you ever lose your way:

 USAF Rescue 
Coordination
Center 

USCG Lost Coast SAR/AirStaHumBay 

 CASARA (Civil Air Search and Rescue Association
 -- Canada)

 PEP Air/CASARA 

 Washington Wing, Civil Air Patrol 

 Aviation info, a SAR group locator, and other useful contacts are at:

 The Aviation Home Page 
 Washington SAR Resources 
 Our NASA SARSAT
friends 

 Return to Table of Contents 

-->

 FastCounter by bCentral 
 --> hits since: Sunday, December 22, 
1996 -
9:00 PM

THIS PAGE IS ALWAYS UNDER CONSTRUCTION. ( I'm a search pilot, not
a web page expert, so your suggestions are welcome!) I'll also try to 
answer your SAR questions.

Original 12-17-96; Updated 4-12-06. 
 Questions & Suggestions to Tom Jensen at:
 c180tom@eskimo.com