Laird Super Solution 

 The Laird Super Solution 

 flight photo (C.) EAA Photo & Imaging 
 See more OSH2002 inflight photos 

 DECEMBER 6, 2000; THE SUPER SOLUTION HAS FLOWN! 

 On December 6, with no less drama than likely accompanied the original's first
flight some 68 years ago, the second flying Super Solution launched from Jim Moss' small 
turf strip near Puyallup, WA.

 We think Matty is smiling from above. His actual signature rode on the airplane, 
along with the original Super Solution registration.

 Please see the "First Flight" link below for pictures.
For a nice story and professional presentation with VIDEOS, please drop into Wayne
Sager's page on our Laird. 
Thanks, Wayne, nice job!

 Thanks to YOUR careful flying for the past several years, most of our work
has been dedicated to scheduled training and currency flights, and chasing
those dang stray ELT's, instead of search. (GUARD 121.5 WHEN YOU FLY!) 
This has left a little time for some non-flying work. One project is shown
 below.

 The Laird Super Solution was a 1931 airplane from the Golden Age of air
racing. It was a transition airplane from the wood and fabric "Jenny" to
 more modern construction techniques. There was only
one flying version built, but it was very successful in 1931. Jimmy
Doolittle won the Bendix Trophy Race and set a transcontinental speed record
from Burbank to New Jersey. He also raced in the Thompson trophy race
against the Gee Bee, but retired due to an overheated engine (this was only
3 days after the Bendix race, on the same engine!) 
Below is a picture from the EAA museum of the non-flying Super Solution
replica.

 On the side of the airplane are a couple of flamingos which were the logo 
of a sponsoring FBO. Art for the decal has been created by Judy Moss who is 
putting up with Jim in all this. A tribute to her is the display of her art below:

 ...and how it will look on the airplane

 NEWS FLASH! IT RUNS! We completed the engine green run 11/03. As with 
all radials, the nice, fresh R-985 sounded like a million bucks. Stay close
for first flight news.

 An amazing fact is that the only flying airplane was built by 15 men
who lived at the Laird Airplane Factory for 40 days! Shortly after
completion, Doolittle won the Bendix Trophy race!!

 WE MADE IT! A last minute push (there was no fabric on the fuselage, or paint on 
anything on July 16). Laird Super Solution #.003 was trailered to AirVenture 2000
at Oshkosh and assembled on July 26 as shown below.

 Jim Moss (not yet a WASAR member..) of Puyallup, WA, is undertaking the
construction of the flying replica shown in the links below, with a little
help from his friends.

 First Flight on December 6, 2000. 
 AirVenture 2000 photos with some famous friends. 
 Airplane status as of june, 2000. 

 Airplane status as of late April, 2000. 

 Some pictures of the exhaust and surrounds, April. 

 Recent photos of main fuel tank construction (March 2000) 

 Some photos from January. 

 Some photos from December. 

 Some more recent photos! 

 Recent photos! 

 Some assembled airplane photos. 
 Some recent detail photos.

 Some other construction photos. 

 Comments are welcome to: c180tom@eskimo.com 
 Back to WASAR home page.