Rogersberg, a beautiful backcountry airstrip in SE Washington! 

 ROGERSBERG IS 
CLOSED until March 1, 2005. 
 ROGERSBERG IS 
OPEN until November 15, 2004. 

 Backcountry folks attention:
 CHECK NOTAMS! 
 Remember to check on those rapidly changing fire TFRs and NOTAM 
situations which may affect your destination airport! Things change
in less than a day, so don't get surprised. 
 Calling the ranger district (numbers in your FLY Idaho book or
Airnav) is even a better way to get accurate advice on current fire
and smoke conditions.
-->

.

 What a long strange trip it's been (Sorry Jerry). Our wonderful 
backcountry strip is open for the season, thanks to the help from 
a lot of folks.
-->
 Responsible pilots please note: According to our agreement with the BLM
which led to the reopening of Rogersberg, the airstrip must be closed to
facilitate/not interfere with eagle roosting between November 15 and
March 1 of each year.

 It is very important to live up to "our" side of that agreement, as
the permit must be renewed annually.
 In other words, 
irresponsible use during the closure period directly risks renewal of
the permit. 

 All backcountry pilots who fly, fish, and recreate at 
Rogersberg are able to do so because a few convinced the BLM that all
were responsible. A few can undo a lot of hard work, so please stay
off Rogersberg until March 1 unless you have a real emergency or BLM
and WSDOT-AD permission.

 While you're dreaming of sugarplums (re: Christmas) and catching that
big bass next spring at Rogersberg, please take a moment to
 email photos
or stories of your 2002 Rogersberg use. 

 If you're planning first time use next spring, please read 
"Responsible use of our new toy" at the bottom of this page.

big bass next spring at Rogersberg, 
 Rogersberg is a friendly little backcountry airstrip on BLM land in
SE Washington, right on the Snake River. It was a private strip on the
Tippet Ranch and has been in use by the public since about 1957. The BLM
purchased the property about 1992, and closed the airstrip about 1996.

 WASAR, WPA and the IAA (Idaho Aviation Assn) have worked with the BLM
and state of Washington to reopen the strip. It WAS opened on May 16,
2001. When volunteers were mowing the strip on May 19, their lawnmower
caught fire and spurted burning fuel onto grass and "duff" (thatch under
the grass.) Something over 600ac. were allowed to burn in a controlled
fashion, once the original fire was beat down. 

 But Rogersberg was closed again. Doom prevailed for a while.

 The BLM did a Fire Rehabilitation plan and proposed reseeding with 
native grasses. Volunteers jumped on the opportunity to do good and on
November 30 2001, provided an ag operator and volunteer muscle to apply 3000#
of seed provided by the BLM to nearly 200ac. 
Pictures and the story of the seeding operation are
 here. 

 The pictures below are
of the strip when it was first opened in May, 2001. Please read the 
safety information for
pilots and fishermen.

 This is a view looking west from the air towards the confluence
of the Grande Ronde. 

 Looking SE into the mouth of Hells Canyon.

 On the ground Looking SE into the mouth of Hells Canyon.

 From the SE end looking NW.

 A utility vehicle backtaxiing to the west.

 Responsible use of our new toy:

 The strip is in fine condition with relatively easy approaches,
but it is a short mountain airstrip. (1500' long, 850'MSL). It
gets hot sometimes, so check density altitude. Beware of winds
coming out of Hells Canyon and the Grand Ronde, which could give
the worst combination of head, tail, and crosswind, all at the
same time. In other words, be qualified, current and careful!
Coordinates, if you need them are N46d04.46m/W116d57.97m.

 Traffic patterns must be to the north (over the river) because
of Lime Hill, and it will be a bit close when turning if winds
require downriver landing. (As usual with mountain airstrips,
generally land upriver and depart downriver).

 Please stay within the 1500' length as marked by the edge and
end reflectors. This generally marks the right of way. Tiedowns
and turnaround should be in the 50 x 50 area south of the strip
at each end, again just inside the end markers. This generally
describes the 1500 x 100 right of way. There is a safety over-run
at each end, but the BLM would prefer that not be used unless 
necessary. Please try not to use the natural turnaround which
is just SE of the SE-most end reflectors, as this is also outside
of the right-of-way. 

 Landing long in the upriver direction (per usual mountain practice) is 
advisable, as the last 1350 feet are straight and offer a gentle, 
straight-in approach. 

 Enjoy! Be safe! Call Jim Scott 1-800-552-0666 or Tom Jensen at
1-800-WPA-FLYS if you have questions or suggestions for maintenance
or safety improvements. If you take pictures, please share them with
Tom Jensen at the email link at the bottom.

 Be advised that ALL maintenance
activity has to be done with the approval of WSDOT-Aviation.

 PS: The BLM is very sensitive to "unapproved ground disturbances". 
Please keep this in mind as you use Rogersberg in the future, and be a good 
citizen, as our use will be reauthorized on an annual basis. 

 Please
be on the lookout for vandalism and report any damage or witness
accounts to the above numbers or Asotin Co. Sheriff.

 Also, the Backcountry Airstrip Foundation is documenting 
emergency uses of backcountry airstrips throughout the west. 
If you know of any instances of one of these airstrips being 
used in an emergency situation please contact Dan Lilja at 
the address listed below. Emergency uses could
include landings due to mechanical problems with an airplane,
 weather related, or for medical reasons, including 
evacuations of persons on the ground. We are also interested in 
reports of vandalism and sabotage to backcountry 
airstrips. Search and Rescue uses are also requested.

 It is the belief of the Foundation members that backcountry airstrips in the west offer not only recreational 
opportunities for pilots but also legitimate landing areas in 
a time of need. As public land managers make policies 
concerning backcountry airstrips it is important for us to be
 able to show evidence for these other critical uses. So, 
please let us know if you have an instance to report.

 Dan Lilja
 Backcountry Airstrip Foundation
 pln3083@blackfoot.net 

-->

Linked section added 5-18-01.Revised 02-29-04
 Questions & Suggestions to:
 Tom Jensen 

 ftp://ftp.eskimo.com/u/c/c180tom/jim 
Site with pix for Jim Scott.

 (in work)

 Return to WASAR 
home page.