WASAR Bylaws 

 WASAR Bylaws 
 WASHINGTON AIR SEARCH AND RESCUE
 A nonprofit corporation 

 Article 1 - PURPOSE
 1.0 The Washington Air Search & Rescue (WASAR) Corporation was incorporated
under the laws of the State of Washington on August 11, 1993, as a nonprofit
corporation. WASAR is an all-volunteer organization with its primary purpose
to assist the Aviation Division of the Washington State Department of Transportation
(WSDOT), in its air search and rescue responsibilities. WASAR will also
assist the Aviation Division in the training of individuals for participation
in search activities and help them maintain their currency. WASAR will
encourage and promote flying safety and help educate the public regarding
the benefits of safe and responsible flying. WASAR is a service organization
that can provide resources to the State of Washington to facilitate these
purposes.
 1.1 WASAR shall also offer its services to the state during times of
declared or undeclared emergencies within the state.
 1.2 WASAR shall not, in any manner whatsoever, direct, manage, conduct
searches or training operations unless directed or sanctioned by the WSDOT.
WASAR provides assistance to the State of Washington in its air search
responsibilities and will work for the State under the direction of the
Aviation Division.
 Article 2 - Principal Office
 2.0 The principal office of the WASAR shall be located at the same address
as that of the Associations Agent, registered with the State of Washington.
The Board may elect to identify a mailing address other than the principal
office to be used for general business correspondence.
 Article 3 - Membership
 3.0 The membership of WASAR shall consist of everyone who is identified
by the WSDOT Aviation Divisions ES Worker Database.
 Article 4 - Meetings
 4.0 All meetings of WASAR, except as herein otherwise provided, shall
be held at a time and place determined by its President.
 4.1 The WASAR Board will select a date, time, and location for its annual
membership meeting.
 4.2 Notice of the annual meeting shall be given by publishing such notice
in the WPA WINGS Newsletter and by mail to those identified on the ES Worker
Database.
 4.3 Special membership meetings may be called at any time by its President.
The notice of any special meeting shall include date, location, time, purpose,
and be given in the same manner required for the regular annual meeting,
other than the date of such meeting can not be any sooner than ten (10)
days after the notice is mailed.
 4.4 At any meeting of the members, a quorum shall consist of the members
present. A decision or vote at any meeting will be determined by a majority
vote of members in attendance. Each member may cast one vote only. There
shall be no voting by proxy or cumulative voting by the members.
 4.5 Roberts Rules of Parliamentary Procedures shall be followed and
minutes shall be kept at all WASAR meetings.
 Article 5 - Directors
 5.0 The business and affairs of WASAR shall be directed by the Board
of Directors.
 5.1 There shall be eight directors of WASAR, four that are appointed
and four that are elected. The four elected directors must be active qualified
search personnel and must appear on the WSDOT Aviation Divisions SAR Specialty
List as current. Directors shall serve without compensation. Any director
or officer may be removed from office, with or without cause, by a two
thirds (2/3) vote of the Board of Directors. A director may resign by submitting
10 day written notice to the Secretary. In the event of such removal or
resignation of a director or officer, the Board shall appoint a replacement
within 30 calendar days of the removal or resignation.
 5.1.1 Appointed directors shall be appointed as follows:

 a. One of the directors shall be the current President of the Washington
Pilots Association or his designee. 
b. A second directorship shall be offered to a representative of the Civil
Air Patrol.
 c. The third director shall be the immediate past president of the
WASAR Board of Directors. In the event the same president is re-elected
for a second 2-year term, the immediate past-president will retain his/her
Board position.
 d. The WASAR State SAR Coordinator shall be a position appointed by
the Board as the fourth Director. 

5.1.2 Elected directors shall be elected, as follows:

 a. Each elected director shall hold office for two years or until
his/her successor is elected.
 b. Only two directors shall be elected in any one year.
 c. Elections will be held via mail-in ballot and tallied by a committee
comprised of the Immediate Past President, Secretary and Member at Large. 

5.2 A regular Board Meeting shall be held within 30 days of close of the
annual elections. The Board shall validate election results and select
the officers of WASAR at this meeting from the elected board members. The
officer who is elected President shall preside at all following WASAR meetings.
The Board may fill a vacancy on the Board or in the officer ranks of the
organization at any time and such appointee shall serve until the next
annual membership meeting of WASAR.
 5.3 At any Board meeting, a quorum shall consist of at least five directors
and a majority vote will determine the outcome of any decision or vote
by the Board. Proxy voting will be permitted as long as the written proxy
is filed with the Secretary prior to the meeting. However, no Director
shall vote more than one proxy.
 5.4 The Board shall hold at least four meetings throughout the year.
 5.5 A special Board meeting may be called at any time by the President
or by written request to the Secretary by any two Directors. Notice of
any special meeting shall include location, time, purpose, and be given
to each Director by telephone, mail, fax, or by other means at his/her
last known address or telephone number. This notice will be sent or conveyed
to each member at least ten (10) days before such special meeting.
 Article 6 - Officers and Duties; Standing Committees.
 6.0 The officers of the WASAR Board shall be President, Secretary, Treasurer,
and Member at Large. The officers shall be responsible for the day-to-day
operation of the WASAR. Officers shall serve without compensation.
 6.1 The President is responsible, subject to the Boards oversight,
for the overall operation of WASAR. The President shall have the general
powers and duties of supervision and management usually vested in the office
of a President. The President shall call meetings of the membership and
Directors and preside at such meetings. The President shall be the focal
point and coordinate all activities between WASAR and the Aviation Division
or other search organizations. The President shall be responsible for maintaining
a working alert system for search call-out, to be immediately available
when search resources are requested by the Aviation Division. The President
shall appoint a nominating committee to prepare a slate of proposed directors
prior to the annual election. Nominations may also be submitted from the 
 WASAR membership. The Immediate Past President shall assume the
duties of the President in his/her absence. 
 6.1.1 The President shall establish Standing Committees
to perform delegated and directed functions, optionally including but not
limited to: 

 District Coordinator Committee, consisting of up to
six District Coordinators as might be assigned to regional districts that
are established by WSDOT-Aviation. 

 Insurance and Scheduling committee 

 Website and Communications Committee. 

 Tools and Technology 

 Charitable Donations. 

 6.2 The WASAR State SAR Coordinator shall be a current
pilot and be listed on the WSDOT SAR Specialty List, or selected by unanimous
action of the Board if the above criteria are not met. The WASAR State
SAR Coordinator shall, in his/her respective area, perform such duties
as the President may prescribe. The coordinator shall coordinate and assist
in activities that support the Aviation Division's search and emergency
management responsibilities. 
 6.3 The Secretary shall prepare and maintain minutes
of all meetings and see that all notices are duly given in accordance with
the provisions of these Bylaws. The Secretary shall maintain the Corporate
Record Book. In general, the Secretary will perform all duties incident
to the office and other such duties as may be assigned by the President. 
 6.4 The Treasurer shall be responsible for the overall
financial activities of the Association. This includes the bank deposit
of all funds received by WASAR, the payment of all bills, and maintenance
of the financial records. The Treasurer shall prepare an annual budget
and maintain an inventory and status of all WASAR assets. In general, the
Treasurer will perform all duties incident to the office and other such
duties as may be assigned by the President. 
 Article 7 - Finances 
 7.0 WASAR shall be operated on a nonprofit basis,
obtaining its funds primary from donations. 
 7.1 The Board shall approve an annual budget for
the operation of WASAR. 
 7.2 No member may authorize expenditures or otherwise
incur financial obligations in the name of WASAR, except as expressly provided
for in these Bylaws or by officers performing their assigned duties. Officers
may only obligate WASAR for amounts identified in the annual approved or
amended budget. 
 7.3 The Board must approve any contract entered into
by WASAR. 
 7.4 All funds received by WASAR shall be deposited
in a bank selected by the Board. All expenses of the organization shall
be paid by check. The President and Treasurer shall each have signature
authority on the organizations checking account. 
 7.5 The Board may approve reimbursement for expenses
incurred by the President, and WASAR State SAR Coordinator for reasonable
long distance telephone expenses incurred during an actual search or ELT
notification. 
 7.6 The Board, at the end of each fiscal year, may
appoint an audit committee to examine the books of the organization for
irregularities. Officers or board members shall not serve on the audit
committee. 
 7.7 The fiscal year of the Association shall be the
calendar year. 
 Article 8 - Dissolution 
 8.0 WASAR shall be dissolved only when approved by
Board Action and ratified by a majority of the members attending a special
membership meeting. 
 8.1 Upon dissolution of WASAR and after payment of
all debts, any remaining funds and other assets shall be distributed to
one or more nonprofit, tax exempt organizations, qualified under Federal
Tax Code, Sections 501(c) (3). The selection of the nonprofit organization
or organizations to receive such remaining WASAR assets shall be made by
the Board of Directors along with the amounts to be given to any organization. 
 Article 9 - Amendments 
 9.0 These Bylaws may be altered, amended or repealed
and new Bylaws may be adopted by a majority vote of directors present at
a meeting of the Board of Directors, provided that any such action be proposed
at a one meeting of the Board and then adopted at a subsequent Board meeting. 
 Article 10 - Indemnification of Officers 
 10.0 Each Officer now or hereafter serving WASAR
and each person who at the request of or on behalf of WASAR, is now serving
or hereafter serves as a Trustee, Director or Officer of any other corporation,
whether for profit or not for profit, and the respective heirs, executors
and administrators of each of them shall be indemnified by WASAR to the
fullest extent provided by law against all costs, expenses, judgments,
and liabilities, including attorneys fees, reasonably incurred by or imposed
upon him/her in connection with or resulting from any claim, action suit,
or proceeding, civil or criminal, in which he or she may be made a party
by reason of his or her being or having been such Officer at the time of
such costs, expenses, judgments, and liabilities, provided that in his
or her official capacity with WASAR, he or she acted in good faith and
in a manner reasonably believed not opposed to the interests of the WASAR,
and in the case of criminal proceedings, he or she had no reasonable cause
to believe his or her conduct was unlawful. The termination of any action,
suit or proceeding by judgment, order settlement or conviction, or upon
a plea of nolo contendere or its equivalent shall not, of itself, be a
presumption, that the person did not act in good faith and in a manner
which he or she reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best
interests of WASAR or had reasonable cause to believe his or her conduct
was unlawful. The foregoing right of indemnification shall not be exclusive
of other rights to which such Officer may be entitled as a matter of law. 
 The Board of Directors may obtain insurance on behalf
of any person who is or was an Officer or agent against any liability arising
out of his or her status as such, whether or not they would have power
to indemnify him or her against such liability. Such indemnification shall
be governed by and consistent with RCW 24.03.035 (14) and RCW 23A.08.025,
as amended. 
 At a special Board of Directors Meeting held on
March 23, 1996, all previous Bylaws of the Washington Air Search &
Rescue, a nonprofit corporation, were repealed and the above set of Bylaws
was approved by a majority vote of the directors. 
 At a regular WASAR Board of Directors Meeting
held on February 10, 2003, the March 23, 1996 Bylaws were proposed for
amendment as noted herein. They will be proposed and adopted at the Annual
General Meeting on February 21, 2004. 
 At a regular WASAR Board of Directors Meeting
held on January 14, 2006, the March 23, 1996 Bylaws were proposed for amendment
as noted herein. At the following Board Meeting on February 25, 2006, these
Bylaws were adopted.