Ronald Hoeflin's Titan Test 

 The Titan Test 

 Even harder than the Mega ! 

 Published online with permission
from the author: 

 Ronald K. Hoeflin 
P.O. Box 539 
New York, NY 10101 

 Send questions/comments related
to this Web page to Darryl
Miyaguchi 

 Changes: 

 04/12/03 
 Scoring fee lowered from $30 to $25. 

 09/24/01 
 Scoring fee increased from $20 to $30. 

 04/05/01 
 Scoring fee reduced to $20. 

 01/04/00 
 Scoring fee increased from $25 to $33. 

 12/27/97 
 Problem 33 again (my bad). The wording
 of the addendum should read, "Each of the M bius strips..." rather than "The M bius strip..." 

 6/22/97 
 Added cross-references to the Hoeflin
 Power Test where appropriate. 

 6/8/97 
 Reverted back to the drawings of
 dodecahedra and icosahedra that Hoeflin uses, which may
 be clearer. 

 6/7/97 
 Incorporated
 response from Ron regarding reference material. 

 6/2/97 
 Problem 33 of the Titan Test has been
 altered since its publication in Omni Magazine .
 The problem in its Omni version is virtually
 unsolvable. My guess is that people who have already
 submitted Titan Test answer sheets will not be able
 resubmit the answer to this one modified problem -- doing
 so would allow one to determine whether or not he or she
 answered that problem correctly. 

 6/2/97 
 The rule regarding use of pocket
 calculators has been clarified. A question has been asked
 about the fairness of using the full search capabilities
 of current online library catalogs to help solve
 analogies. I am awaiting a ruling from Ron. 

 6/2/97 
 Subscores to the tests are no longer
 reported. 

 INSTRUCTIONS: 

 1. ANSWER SHEET. Please print out the answer sheet 
and write your answers there. Provide the other information
requested too. 

 2. TIME LIMIT. There is no enforceable time limit, but one
month would be a reasonable amount of time to spend on the test. 

 3. ADDITIONS AND CORRECTIONS TO ANSWERS: No additions or
corrections to your initial set of answers will be accepted. You
get only one try at this test, so do your best the first time. 

 4. ASSISTANCE. So that no one will gain an unfair advantage by
using reference aids, everyone is both permitted and encouraged
to use books (In response to the question of online library
catalog searches, Hoeflin writes: "I'd prefer that people
employ just a dictionary and thesaurus in book form ... my test
is not intended to be a test of computer-using skills.").
Paper and pencil should suffice for this test, but if desired,
you may use a non-programmable pocket calculator (for addition,
subtraction, multiplication, or division); however, computers are
not allowed as aids to the test. This restriction includes, but
is not limited to the use of: commercial offerings such as
spreadsheets and mathematical programs, user-written programs,
electronic encyclopedias, Web search engines, and online sequence
databases. Any assistance from other persons is prohibited. 

 If you have plans to take Hoeflin's Power Test (a compilation
of the best nonverbal and non-sequence problems from the Mega,
Titan, and Ultra Tests), you should be aware that that test has
more restrictive rules, disallowing the use of calculators and
reference material altogether. I have provided cross-references
to the Power Test -- you are free to use or ignore these links as
appropriate for you. [DTM] 

 5. DISCUSSION OF PROBLEMS. As the Titan Test may be used as an
admissions test to several societies, please do not share answers
in a public forum with anyone who has not tried this test
already. If you have plans to take Hoeflin's Power Test, then you
should not share answers at all. 

 6. GUESSING. There is no penalty for wrong answers or guesses,
so it is to your advantage to guess whenever you are unsure of an
answer. 

 7. FEE. There is $25 scoring fee, payable to the test
designer, "Ronald K. Hoeflin," at P.O. Box 539, New
York, NY 10101, U.S.A. Checks or money orders must be made
payable in U.S. dollars through any U.S. bank or post office.
Please remember that postal delivery services which require a
signature cannot be delivered to post office boxes. You will
receive a scoresheet showing your raw score, your corresponding
I.Q. score, and its estimated percentile in the general
population. Subscores within the test are no longer reported
because it gives people too much of a clue which problems they
got right or wrong and because the subtests are too short to be
much help to people in evaluating their verbal or math aptitudes. 

 8. SCORESHEETS. Send to Ronald K. Hoeflin at the above
address. Allow up to four weeks to elapse before complaining
about not receiving a score report. Most scores are sent out
within two or three weeks of the receipt of your answers. 

 8. SOCIETY ADMISSIONS USAGE: This test is accepted as an
admissions test by the Top One Percent
Society (minimum: 10 right), the One-in-a-Thousand
Society (24 right), the IQuadrivium
Society (24 right), the Glia
Society (24 right), the Prometheus Society 
(36 right, obtained before April 25, 1999), and the Mega Society (43 right,
obtained prior to 1995). 

 VERBAL ANALOGIES 

 Write the word or prefix that best completes each analogy. For
example, in the analogy MAN : WOMAN :: ANDRO- : ?, the best
answer would be GYNO-. 

 1. STRIP : MBIUS :: BOTTLE : ? 
2. THOUGHT : ACTION :: OBSESSIVE : ? 
3. LACKING MONEY : PENURIOUS :: DOTING ON ONE'S WIFE : ? 
4. MICE : MEN :: CABBAGES : ? 
5. TIRE : RETREAD :: PARCHMENT : ? 
6. ALL IS ONE : MONISM :: ALL IS SELF : ? 
7. SWORD : DAMOCLES :: BED : ? 
8. THING : DANGEROUS :: SPRING : ? 
9. HOLLOW VICTORY : PYRRHIC :: HOLLOW VILLAGE : ? 
10. PILLAR : OBELISK :: MONSTER : ? 
11. 4 : HAND :: 9 : ? 
12. GOLD : MALLEABLE :: CHALK : ? 
13. EASY JOB : SINECURE :: GUIDING LIGHT : ? 
14. LEG : AMBULATE :: ARM : ? 
15. MOSQUITO : MALARIA :: CANNIBALISM : ? 
16. HEAR : SEE :: TEMPORAL : ? 
17. ASTRONOMY AND PHYSICS : ASTROPHYSICS :: HISTORY AND
STATISTICS : ? 
18. JEKYLL : HYDE :: ELOI : ? 
19. UNIVERSE : COSMO- :: UNIVERSAL LAWS : ? 
20. SET OF SETS NOT MEMBERS OF THEMSELVES : RUSSELL :: DARKNESS
OF THE NIGHT SKY IN AN INFINITE UNIVERSE : ? 
21. TEACHING : UPLIFTING :: PEDAGOGIC : ? 
22. LANGUAGE GAMES : LUDWIG :: PIANO CONCERTI FOR THE LEFT HAND :
? 
23. IDOLS : TWILIGHT :: MORALS : ? 
24. SWEET NESS : SUFFIX :: BOAT SWAIN : ? 

 SPATIAL PROBLEMS 

 The design to the right is
 made up of three squares of different sizes, lying one on
 top of another. What is the minimum number of squares
 that would be sufficient to create each of the following
 patterns? 

 25. 
 [cf.
 Hoeflin Power Test, problem 2 ] 

 26. 

 27. 

 28. 
 If each side of a tetrahedron
 is an equilateral triangle painted white or black, five
 distinct patterns are possible: all sides white, all
 black, just one side white, just one black, and two sides
 white and two black. If each side of an octahedron is a
 white or black equilateral triangle, how many distinct
 patterns are possible? [cf. Hoeflin
 Power Test, problem 7 ] 

 29. 
 Suppose 27 identical cubes are glued
 together to form a cubical stack as illustrated to the
 right. If one of the small cubes is omitted, four
 distinct shapes are possible; one in which the omitted
 cube is at a corner of the stack, one in which it is at
 the middle of an edge of the stack, one in which it is at
 the middle of a side of the stack, and one in which it is
 at the core of the stack. If two of the small cubes are
 omitted rather than just one, how many distinct shapes
 are possible? [cf. Hoeflin Power
 Test, problem 19 ] 

 30. 
 Suppose a diagonal is drawn across each
 side of a cube from one corner to the other (see
 illustration to the right). How many distinct patterns
 are possible, considering all possible orientations of
 the diagonals, including all six sides of the cube in
 each pattern? [cf. Hoeflin Power
 Test, problem 29 ] 

 SLICE AND DICE 

 31. 
 A perfectly spherical onion is sliced by
 six perfectly straight knife strokes; the pieces thereby
 formed never having been moved from their original
 positions. What is the maximum number of pieces into
 which the infinitesimally thin outer skin of the onion
 can thus be divided? [cf. Hoeflin
 Power Test, problem 10 ] 

 32. 
 A tetrahedral lump of clay is sliced by
 six perfectly straight cuts, the pieces never moving from
 their original positions. What is the maximum number of
 tetrahedral pieces that can thus be formed, counting only
 pieces that are not further subdivided? [cf. Hoeflin Power Test, problem 11 ] 

 33. 
 Consider the torus, a doughnut-shaped
 solid that is perfectly circular at each perpendicular
 cross section, and a Mbius strip, which has a single
 180-degree twist and a uniform curvature throughout its
 length. Suppose a torus is sliced three times by a knife
 that each time precisely follows the path of such a
 Mbius strip. What is the maximum number of pieces that
 can result if the pieces are never moved from their
 original positions? Note: Each of the Mbius strips is
 entirely confined to the interior of the torus. [cf. Hoeflin Power Test, problem 13 ] 

 INTERPENETRATIONS 

 34. 
 Three interpenetrating circles yield a
 maximum of seven pieces, not counting pieces that are
 further subdivided, as shown to the right. What is the
 maximum number of pieces, not further subdivided, that
 can be formed when three circles and two triangles all
 interpenetrate? [cf. Hoeflin Power
 Test, problem 4 ] 

 35. 
 Suppose two right circular
 cones and one right circular cylinder mutually
 interpenetrate, with the base of each cone and both bases
 (i.e., both ends) of the cylinder sealed by precisely
 fitting flat circular surfaces. What is the maximum
 number of pieces (i.e., completely bounded volumes) that
 can thus be formed, considering only the surfaces of
 these three figures as boundaries and counting only
 pieces that are not further subdivided? [cf. Hoeflin Power Test, problem 27 ] 

 36. 
 If a cube and a tetrahedron
 interpenetrate, what is the maximum possible number of
 solid pieces (i.e., completely bounded volumes not
 further subdivided)? [cf. Hoeflin
 Power Test, problem 25 ] 

 PROBABILITIES 

 37. 
 Suppose you are truthfully told that ten
 marbles were inserted into a box, all of them identical
 except that their colors were determined by the toss of
 an unbiased coin. When heads came up, a white marble was
 inserted, and when tails came up, a black one. You reach
 into the box, draw out a marble, inspect its color, then
 return it to the box. You shake the box to mix the
 marbles randomly, and then reach in and again select a
 marble at random. If you inspect ten marbles in
 succession in this manner and all turn out to be white,
 what is the probability to the nearest whole percent that
 all ten marbles in the box are white? [cf. Hoeflin Power Test, problem 31 ] 

 Suppose there is an ant at each vertex of a triangle and the
three ants simultaneously crawl along a side to the next vertex.
The probability that no two ants will encounter one another is
2/8, since the only two cases in which no encounter occurs are
when the ants all go left (clockwise) -- LLL -- or all go right
(counterclockwise) -- RRR. In the six other cases -- RRL, RLR,
RLL, LLR, LRL, and LRR -- there will be an encounter. 

 For the following five problems, imagine there is an ant at
each vertex and that the ants all simultaneously crawl along an
edge to the next vertex, each ant choosing its path randomly.
What is the probability that no ant will encounter another,
either en route or at the next vertex, for each of the following
regular polyhedrons? (Express your answer as a reduced fraction;
e.g., 2/8 = 1/4.) 

 38. 
 A tetrahedron [cf.
 Hoeflin Power Test, problem 21 ] 

 39. 
 A cube [cf. Hoeflin
 Power Test, problem 22 ] 

 40. 
 An octahedron [cf.
 Hoeflin Power Test, problem 23 ] 

 41. 
 A dodecahedron (illustrated to the right)
 [cf. Hoeflin Power Test, problem 24 ] 

 42. 
 An icosahedron (illustrated to the right) 

 NUMBER SEQUENCES 

 Determine the value of ___ in each of the following sequences.
For example, in the sequence 
1 4 9 16 25 ___ 49 64, the value of ___ is 36. 

 43. 4/10 ___/100 168/1,000 1,229/10,000 9,592/100,000
78,498/1,000,000 
44. 1 4 17 54 145 368 945 ___ 
45. 0 6 21 40 5 -504 ___ 
46. 2 15 1,001 215,441 ___ 
47. 7 8 5 3 9 8 1 6 3 ___ 

 48. 

 This concludes the test. 

 Look at the Titan Test
Norming 

 Return to the Uncommonly
Difficult I.Q. Tests Page