Top One Percent Society 

 The Top One Percent Society 

 Introduction 

 Founded in July 1989, the Top One Percent
Society (TOPS) is one of roughly a dozen high-IQ societies in
existence today. The chief criticism of two of the best known
societies -- Mensa , which accepts at the 98th percentile minimum and Intertel , which accepts at the
99th percentile minimum -- is that they have been insufficiently
intellectual in orientation, focusing mostly on partying. The
99.9 percentile (One-in-a-Thousand Society, Triple Nine) or
higher requirement does tend to yield a more satisfying
environment, but at the cost of excluding many intellectually
oriented people. 

 The guiding idea in founding the Top One
Percent Society was that a 99th percentile cut-off should not be
inconsistent with an intellectual orientation provided it was
given strong intellectual leadership. The founder and editor,
Ronald K. Hoeflin, is an award-winning philosopher who attempts
to supply that kind of leadership. 

 The Top One Percent Society has a monthly
20-page journal (including the front and back covers), In-Genius ,
to which any subscriber to the society's journal is welcome to
submit letters or essays. Occasionally poetry, cartoons, puzzles,
or other types of material will also be accepted. The emphasis is
on material that is intellectually stimulating. If published,
this material will often be followed by the editor's comments.
The name and mailing address of the contributor is also given so
that other members may offer their private comments. They may
also submit public comments for inclusion in the journal. Any
topic of interest to intelligent people is open for discussion. 

 The number of members and subscribers in TOPS
varies between 250 and 300, with subscribers located in about 40
U.S. states, Canada, plus ten other countries (England, France,
Germany, Australia, etc.). 

 Some Qualifying Scores 

 The following are minimum qualifying scores for full
membership in the Top One Percent Society. 

 Standard intelligence
 tests: 

 Stanford-Binet 
 137 IQ 

 Wechsler Adult Intelligence Test 
 135 IQ 

 College admissions tests: 

 SAT (verbal + math aptitude scores) 
 1300 (but 1360 after 1995) 

 ACT (American College Testing program) 
 29 

 Graduate school admissions tests: 

 GRE (verbal + math aptitude scores) 
 1300 

 Miller Analogies Test 
 74 

 Mensa admissions tests: 

 California Test of Mental Maturity 
 99th percentile 

 Cattell-Verbal 
 99th percentile 

 Tests by Ronald K. Hoeflin: 

 Mega
 Test 
 14 right 

 Titan
 Test 
 10 right 

 Test by Kevin Langdon: 

 Langdon Adult Intelligence Test (no longer scored) 
 137 IQ 

 Test by Phil Bloom: 

 Bloom Analogies Test 
 1/100 

 Tests by Chris Harding: 

 Skyscraper 
 1/100 

 W-87 
 1/100 

 Test by Paul Cooijmans: 

 Test for Genius, short form (Revision 1996) 
 Contact Ron Hoeflin for exact value (either 3 or 4
 right out of 42) 

 The Psychological Corporation 

 Concept Mastery Test 
 135 

 Other Tests: 
 A score at or above the 99th percentile on other
 tests will be considered on a case-by-case basis. 

 To Join 

 Send your (printed or typed) name, address,
qualifying test name/score, along with a $30 check or money order
for the first 12 issues of In-Genius to the address below.
If seeking full membership, also send a photocopy of your
qualifying score. Those who do not wish to submit a qualifying
score or who cannot meet the minimum requirement on an accepted
test are welcome to join as subscribers. 

 Checks or money orders must be made payable in U.S. dollars
through any U.S. bank or post office to: 

 Ronald K. Hoeflin 
 P.O. Box 539 
 New York, NY 10101 

 Back Issues 

 All back issue of the TOPS journal, In-Genius , are
available at $2.50 apiece. If you wish to receive back issues,
specify which ones you want and send a check/money order to cover
the fee. 

 Return to the Uncommonly
Difficult I.Q. Tests Page 

 Send questions/comments related
to this Web page to Darryl Miyaguchi 
 Last updated on June 2, 1997