Ronald Hoeflin's Ultra Test 

 The Ultra Test 

 Note: As of
4/12/03, the Ultra Test is no longer being scored by Ron Hoeflin 

 Published online with permission
from the author: 

 Ronald K. Hoeflin 
P.O. Box 539 
New York, NY 10101 

 Send questions/comments related
to this Web page to Darryl
Miyaguchi 

 Changes: 

 04/12/03 
 Ron no longer scores this test. 

 09/24/01 
 Scoring fee increased from $20 to $30. 

 04/05/01 
 Scoring fee decreased to $20. 

 01/04/00 
 Scoring fee increased from $25 to $33. 

 6/8/97 
 Reverted back to the drawings of
 dodecahedra and icosahedra that Hoeflin uses, which may
 be clearer. 

 INTRODUCTION: 

 The Ultra Test is an untimed, unsupervised intelligence test
for gifted adults that is intended as an admissions test for
various high-IQ societies, of which the test designer founded
four -- Mega, Prometheus, the One-in-a-Thousand Society, and the
Top One Percent Society -- and currently serves as editor and
sole officer for the latter two. These groups have percentile
requirements at the 99.9999, 99.997, 99.9, and 99th percentiles,
respectively. The test designer's Mega Test 
was published in the April 1985 issue of Omni magazine and
his Titan
Test in the April 1990 issue of that publication. Both of
those tests are still in use, but the test designer hopes
eventually to combine the best problems from all three tests to
form one or two higher-quality tests. (In
fact, one of these tests, the Hoeflin Power Test , has already been compiled. -- DTM) 

 INSTRUCTIONS: 

 ANSWER SHEET. Please print out the answer sheet 
and write your answers there. Provide the other information
requested too. 

 2. TIME LIMIT. There is no enforceable time limit, but 100
hours spread over one or two months proved to be the optimum for
the Mega and Titan tests. 

 3. ADDITIONS AND CORRECTIONS TO ANSWERS: No additions or
corrections to your initial set of answers will be accepted. You
get only one try at this test, so do your best the first time. 

 4. ASSISTANCE. So that no one will gain an unfair advantage by
using reference aids, everyone is both permitted and encouraged
to use books (In response to the question
of online library catalog searches, Hoeflin writes: "I'd
prefer that people employ just a dictionary and thesaurus in book
form ... my test is not intended to be a test of computer-using
skills."). Paper and pencil should suffice for this
test, but if desired, you may use a non-programmable pocket
calculator (for addition, subtraction, multiplication, or
division); however, computers are not allowed as aids to the
test. This restriction includes, but is not limited to the use
of: commercial offerings such as spreadsheets and mathematical
programs, user-written programs, electronic encyclopedias, Web
search engines, and online sequence databases. Any assistance
from other persons is prohibited. 

 If you have plans to take Hoeflin's Power Test (a compilation
of the best nonverbal and non-sequence problems from the Mega,
Titan, and Ultra Tests), you should be aware that that test has
more restrictive rules, disallowing the use of calculators and
reference material altogether. I have provided cross-references
to the Power Test -- you are free to use or ignore these links as
appropriate for you. [DTM] 

 5. DISCUSSION OF PROBLEMS. As the Ultra Test may be used as an
admissions test to several societies, please do not share answers
in a public forum with anyone who has not tried this test
already. If you have plans to take Hoeflin's Power Test, then you
should not share answers at all. 

 6. GUESSING. There is no penalty for wrong answers or guesses,
so it is to your advantage to guess whenever you are unsure of an
answer. Verbal items count one (1) point
and nonverbal items count two (2) points, so your maximum raw
score would be 72 and your minimum score would be zero (0).
Misspellings on the verbal problems will be given half credit if
otherwise correct. 

 7. FEE. There is $30 scoring fee, payable to the test
designer, "Ronald K. Hoeflin," at P.O. Box 539, New
York, NY 10101, U.S.A. Checks or money orders must be made
payable in U.S. dollars through any U.S. bank or post office.
Please remember that postal delivery services which require a
signature cannot be delivered to post office boxes. You will
receive a scoresheet showing your raw score, your corresponding
I.Q. score, and its estimated percentile in the general
population. 

 8. SCORESHEETS. Send to Ronald K. Hoeflin at the above
address. Allow up to four weeks to elapse before complaining
about not receiving a score report. Most scores are sent out
within two or three weeks of the receipt of your answers. 

 9. SOCIETY ADMISSIONS USAGE: This test may in the future be
accepted as an admissions test by the Triple Nine Society, and
the Prometheus Society (and possibly the Mega Society, but the
admissions cutoff would be very close to the test's ceiling).
This test is currently accepted by the Glia
Society (IQ 150) and, I presume, Hoeflin's own groups, the Top One Percent
Society (IQ 137) and the One-in-a-Thousand
Society (IQ 150). 

 A comment on verbal intelligence: Some people wonder
about the value of verbal items as a measure of
"intelligence," since trying such items seems to
involve little or no intellectual effort. From the purely
statistical standpoint, many studies repeatedly showed that
verbal intelligence, including the sheer size of one's
vocabulary, has one of the highest correlations of any type of
test item with overall intelligence as measured by tests
containing a wide variety of test items. See for example the book
 Intelligence in the United States , published around 1958,
for ample documentation. On the purely intuitive level, one might
say that learning a language, including vocabulary, is for the
child like decoding hieroglyphics. The brighter child will master
this decoding process far more readily than the average child.
Later, of course, one can artificially boost the size of one's
vocabulary, but cleverly designed tests of verbal intelligence
can get around this problem by relying on somewhat atypical
verbal items that one would be unlikely to pick up through a
"vocabulary improvement" course but that a gifted child
would be likely to have picked up if he has been reasonably
inquisitive -- and isn't inquisitiveness an important part of
intelligence? Finally, to use a computer analogy, a powerful
computer without adequate software (analogous to verbal
intelligence in humans) would be relatively unproductive no
matter how powerful the hardware. -- RKH 

 VERBAL PROBLEMS 

 Find the best solution for each of the following analogies.
Example -- CLEAR : CLOUDY :: TRANSPARENT : ? The best answer
would be TRANSLUCENT. Misspellings will be given half credit if
otherwise correct. The final authority, wherever possible, for
correct spellings will be the Merriam-Webster Collegiate
Dictionary, 10th edition. 

 1. Once : Twice :: Bitten : ? 
2. Amphibian : Salamander :: Political district : ? 
3. Riddle : Mystery :: Mystery : ? 
4. Penny : Thrift :: Pinch : ? 
5. 2.54 : Inch :: 454 : ? 
6. One-eyed : Cyclops :: Two-faced : ? 
7. Swiftness : Velocity :: Stickiness : ? 
8. Say : Hear :: Imply : ? 
9. Space : Hyperspace :: Vector : ? 
10. Wind : Rain :: Typhoon : ? 
11. Scenic : Picturesque :: Roguish : ? 
12. Inward : Outward :: Infection : ? 
13. Strong : Herculean :: Polymorphous : ? 
14. Sophisticated : Wisened :: Wrinkled : ? 
15. Wicked Woman : Witch :: Bad Taste : ? 
16. Silly, Not Obese : Fatuous :: Offensive, Not Loud : ? 
17. Column : Row :: File : ? 
18. Humbug : Bach :: Seek : ? 
19. Coals : Newcastle :: Rough Beast : ? 
20. Enlightenment : Illuminati :: Knowledge : ? 
21. Pride : Prejudice :: Sense : ? 
22. Of Ten : Factor :: Of Magnitude : ? 
23. 2.54 : Inch :: 3.26 : ? 
24. Pocus : Hocus :: Pokery : ? 
25. Eggs : Grading :: Wounded : ? 
26. Mock : Mach :: Oiler : ? 
27. Go : Gang :: Awry : ? 
28. Tall, Dark : Handsome :: Nasty, Brutish : ? 
29. Split Apart : Cleave :: Stick Together : ? 
30. Image : Idea :: Hallucination : ? 
31. Hairpiece : Wig :: Party : ? 
32. Tom : Harry :: Gold : ? 
33. Them : Us :: Eskimo : ? 
34. Wedding Assistant : Best Man :: Movie Production Assistant :
? 
35. A, AB, B, BO, O : BO :: A, C, G, T, U : ? 
36. Plus Ultra : Ne :: Ne Sais Quoi : ? 

 NONVERBAL PROBLEMS 

 37. 
 If the four sides of a square
 consist of rods each of which is painted white or black,
 six distinct color patterns are possible: (1) all sides
 white, (2) all sides black, (3) one side white and the
 rest black, (4) one side black and the rest white, (5)
 two adjacent sides white and the other sides black, and
 (6) two opposite sides white and the other sides black.
 Suppose that each of the twelve edges of a cube is a rod
 that is painted white or black. How many distinct
 patterns are possible if any three of the rods are
 painted white and the other nine are painted black? 

 38. 
 Suppose that the figure at right consists
 of nine rods of equal length joined together to form four
 equilateral triangles of equal size. If two of the rods
 are painted white and the remaining seven rods are
 painted black, how many distinct patterns can thereby be
 created? 

 39. 
 Suppose an octahedron
 consists of twelve rods all of equal length and forming
 eight equilateral triangles -- the eight sides of the
 octahedron. If any two of the rods are painted white and
 the rest black, how many distinct patterns are possible? 

 40. 
 Suppose that the figure at right consists
 of thirty rods of equal length that form twelve
 pentagonal figures of equal size, which form the twelve
 sides of a regular dodecahedron. If any two rods are
 painted white and the remaining twenty-eight are painted
 black, how many distinct patterns are possible? [cf. Hoeflin Power Test, problem 30 ] 

 41. 
 Suppose an octahedron
 consists of twelve rods all of equal length and forming
 eight equilateral triangles -- the eight sides of the
 octahedron. If any three of the rods are painted white
 and the rest black, how many distinct patterns are
 possible? 

 42. 
 If lightbulbs are put at two
 different corners of a square, two distinct patterns are
 possible: one in which the bulbs are at opposite ends of
 any side of the square, and one in which the bulbs are
 diagonally across from one another. If lightbulbs are put
 at four different corners of a cube, how many distinct
 patterns are possible? 

 43. 
 If lightbulbs are placed at
 two different vertices of a regular dodecahedron, how
 many distinct patterns are possible? [cf. Hoeflin Power Test, problem 5 ] 

 44. 
 Suppose that lightbulbs are placed at any
 three distinct vertices of a regular icosahedron
 (illustrated at right). How many distinct patterns can
 thereby be formed? [cf. Hoeflin
 Power Test, problem 6 ] 

 45. 
 The five figures shown below
 represent the appearance of a solid, opaque object as
 seen from five of its six sides. Each line shown depicts
 a side of the object that is perpendicular to the plane
 of this page. The object was constructed by gluing
 together a number of identical cubes so that at least one
 face of each added cube precisely and entirely covers and
 is everywhere contiguous with one face of a previous
 cube. Draw the sixth view of the object. 

 The following number sequences are each based on pi, whose
first fifty-one digits (counting the initial 3) are as follows:
3.14159 26535 89793 23846 26433 83279 50288 41971 69399 37510.
Find the number that best continues each of these sequences: 

 46. 3 4 5 5 7 5 1 9 1 8 9 ? 
47. 2 2 3 2 4 10 1 7 4 4 4 ? 
48. 8 6 10 15 16 17 13 14 13 ? 
49. 6 13 15 31 39 43 45 ? 

 Draw the figure that should fill the blank (identified by the
question mark) in each of the following series: [cf. Hoeflin Power Test, problems 32 through 35 ] 

 This concludes the test. 

 Look at the Ultra Test
Results 

 Return to the Uncommonly
Difficult I.Q. Tests Page