C.G. Jung Society, Seattle: Fall 2004 Newsletter 

 C.G. Jung Society, Seattle 

 Jerry Wennstrom & Marilyn Strong 

 In the Hands of Alchemy: The Way of Trust and Transformation 
 Workshop: Saturday, September 25, 2004, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m . 
 Whidbey Island 
$46 members, $56 nonmembers (includes lunch) 
 To learn about preregistering for the workshop, see Preregistration Policy and Form . 
 This event will take place in the workshop space of the 
 facilitators at their home on Whidbey Island, surrounded 
 by artist Jerry Wennstrom&rsquo;s murals and life-size 
 interactive cedar sculptures. We will begin by helping 
 participants shift from the routines and pressures of 
 their daily lives into a more introspective, listening mode 
 through drumming and chanting led by Marilyn Strong. 
 We will then show the 30-minute Parabola Magazine 
 documentary, In the Hands of Alchemy , which provides an overview of Jerry and 
 Marilyn&rsquo;s art and lives, followed by discussion. 
 After engaging Jerry and Marilyn&rsquo;s personal stories of transformation, the 
 workshop is designed to help participants work with the transpersonal and 
 universal aspects of surrender and metaphorical death inherent in the archetypal 
 journey that Jung called Individuation. Many know this in myth as &ldquo;the descent,&rdquo; as 
 the mystic&rsquo;s &ldquo;dark night of the soul," as alchemy&rsquo;s nigredo phase, the &ldquo;black blacker 
 than black.&rdquo; We will work with the fears and limitations that hold each of us back 
 from our own personal surrenders, releasing those fears through sacred ceremony. 
 We will explore together how joyful expression is our birthright and introduce a 
 way to open creatively to the mystery and the unknown in our lives. 
 In 1979, Jerry Wennstrom was a rising star in the New York art world when he 
 decided that, in order to truly live, he must take the ultimate leap of faith. He 
 destroyed his large body of art, gave away all his possessions and spent the next 
 ten years wandering, seeking, and trusting. He is author of The Inspired Heart: An 
 Artist&rsquo;s Journey of Transformation . 
 Marilyn C. Strong holds a B.A. in Religion and Adult Education and an M.A. in 
 Spirituality and Culture. She is a skilled group facilitator, counselor, drummer, 
 singer, and has studied ritual and ceremony, depth psychology, Jungian dream 
 analysis, and alchemy. 
 For more about their work and art, visit www.handsofalchemy.com .
 Directions : Take Interstate 5 (I-5) North to Mukilteo/Clinton Ferry to Whidbey Island 
 exit. Then just follow the signs to the Ferry. Once you are on Whidbey and driving off 
 of the ferry, stay on that highway (525) for about one mile to the top of the long hill. 
 The first road that crosses the highway at the top of the hill is Campbell Road. Go left 
 on Campbell and stay on it for less than 1/4 mi and you will cross over Cultus Bay Rd. 
 Continuing on Campbell rd, our driveway is 1/4-ish mile beyond Cultus Bay rd. on the 
 left. You will see the driveway for The Waldorf School/Chinook/Whidbey Institute on 
 the left and Fox Hill Lane is the next drive past Chinook&rsquo;s driveway, also on the left. That 
 is the beginning of our driveway. There is a picture of a fox up in the tree at the 
 beginning of the driveway. Drive back Fox Hill a little ways and you&rsquo;ll come to a fork in 
 the road. Take the middle driveway with a sign in the tree &ldquo;STRONG&rdquo; 6365 S. Fox Hill 
 Lane, that is our driveway.

 C.G. Jung Society, Seattle home page 
 Updated: 3 September 2004 

 webmaster@jungseattle.org