C.G. Jung Society, Seattle: Fall 2004 Newsletter 

 C.G. Jung Society, Seattle 

 Geri Grubbs, Ph.D. 

 Bereavement Dreaming and
the Individuating Soul 
 Presentation: Saturday, November 6, 2004, 10:30 a.m. to 3 p.m . 
 Good Shepherd Center, Room 221, 4649 Sunnyside Ave. N., Seattle 
$30 members, $40 nonmembers, $25 student/senior members, $35 student/senior nonmembers 
3.5 CEUs approved by the NASW 
 To learn about preregistering for the workshop, see Preregistration Policy and Form . 
 The sudden death of a loved one affects all aspects of our lives and certainly changes its meaning and direction. We are generally unaware of how much the inner Self prepares us for this crises and how it guides us later through our nightly dreams. Geri Grubbs&rsquo; newly released book, Bereavement Dreaming and the Individuating Soul , presents this death-and-grief process expressed in our dreams. We will focus on the common elements in bereavement dreams as revealed in Geri&rsquo;s dreams following the death of her son in 1984 and from other true stories presented in her book. She will address the universally experienced, archetypal images of death, visitations of the spirit soul, transcendent states of consciousness, and the state of liminality that opens our psyches to the spiritual, archetypal, and collective realms of the unconscious. The lecture will conclude with a slide presentation of Dia de los Muertos in Mexico, in which we will see how families in a culture other than our own relate to the world of the dead and how they come together in celebration of their departed loved ones. 
 Following the presentation and lunch, we will focus on phases of bereavement dreaming that includes liminality, separation and parting, and reunion and renewal, in a setting conducive to discussion and the sharing of dreams.
 Objectives: 

 To learn about the archetypes of death expressed in dreams and how they aid the grief process. 
 To understand the phases of bereavement dreaming and what they might mean. 
 To learn how the bereaved can relate in a healthy way to the images and memory of their departed loved ones. 

 &hellip;An inspiration for those who are struggling with the loss of a loved one and for caring friends, family, and those in the "helping professions" who want fresh insights to share with their bereaved clients and patients. Dr. Grubbs' analyses of several people's dreams form a major focus, but her subject is not limited to dream work. This insightful book guides the reader's understanding of bereavement in a way that could come only from one who has learned first hand - that is, "the hard way" - how to cope and to heal from within. 
&#8212; Louise Carus Mahdi, Jungian analyst, editor of Betwixt & Between and Crossroads 

 Geri Grubbs, Ph.D. , is a practicing Jungian analyst in Woodinville, Washington, and a training analyst on the board of the North Pacific Institute for Analytical Psychology. She has been practicing depth psychology since 1987 and is a graduate of the C.G. Jung Institute in Zurich. Geri has lectured and taught widely on dream interpretation and sandplay therapy. 

 C.G. Jung Society, Seattle home page 
 Updated: 3 October 2004 

 webmaster@jungseattle.org