C.G. Jung Society, Seattle: Fall 2004 Newsletter 

 C.G. Jung Society, Seattle 

 Geri Grubbs, Ph.D. 

 Bereavement Dreaming and
the Individuating Soul 
 Lecture: Friday, September 10, 2004, 7:30 to 9:30 p.m. 
 Good Shepherd Center, Room 202, 4649 Sunnyside Ave. N., Seattle 
$10 members, $15 nonmembers 
 Workshop: Saturday, September 11, 2004, 10 a.m. to 2:30 p.m . 
 Good Shepherd Center, Room 221, 4649 Sunnyside Ave. N., Seattle 
$30 members, $40 nonmembers, $25 student/senior members, $35 student/senior nonmembers 
 To learn about preregistering for the workshop, see Preregistration Policy and Form . 
 The sudden death of a loved one affects all aspects of our 
 life and certainly changes its meaning and direction. We are 
 generally unaware of how much the inner Self prepares us for 
 this crisis and how it guides us later through our nightly 
 dreams. Geri Grubbs&rsquo;s newly released book, Bereavement 
 Dreaming and the Individuating Soul , presents this death-and-grief process expressed 
 in our dreams. We will focus on the common elements in bereavement dreams as 
 revealed in Geri&rsquo;s dreams following the death of her son in 1984 and other true 
 stories presented in her book. She will address the universally experienced 
 archetypal images of death, visitations of the spirit soul, transcendent states of 
 consciousness, and the state of liminality that opens our psyches to the spiritual,
 archetypal, and collective realms of the unconscious. The seminar will conclude
with a slide presentation of Dia de Muertos in Mexico in which we will see how 
families in a culture other than our own relate to the world of the dead and how 
they come together in celebration of their departed loved ones. 
 Images, themes, and phases of bereavement dreaming that direct our psyche 
toward wholeness, transcendence, and transformation will be the major focus of 
Saturday's workshop. Those who wish will have an opportunity to share their 
experiences involving bereavement dreaming, explore what these dreams may be 
expressing, and learn how to resolve the grief and suffering that is so much a part 
of bereavement.
 Geri Grubbs, Ph.D. , is a practicing Jungian Analyst in Woodinville, Washington 
 and a training analyst on the board of the North Pacific Institute for Analytical 
 Psychology. She has been practicing depth psychology since 1987 and is a 
 graduate of the C. G. Jung Institute in Zurich. Her focus in analytical treatment is 
 on trauma, bereavement, relational, and spiritual issues with adults and children. 
 She has lectured and taught widely on dream interpretation and sandtray therapy, 
 and has recently published her book Bereavement Dreaming and the Individuating Soul . 

 C.G. Jung Society, Seattle home page 
 Updated: 3 September 2004 

 webmaster@jungseattle.org