C.G. Jung Society, Seattle: Fall 2004 Newsletter 

 C.G. Jung Society, Seattle 

 Naomi Lowinsky, Ph.D. 

 After Termination: Cultivating the "Other" Within 
 Lecture: Friday, December 10, 2004, 7:30 to 9:30 p.m. 
 Good Shepherd Center, Room 202, 4649 Sunnyside Ave. N., Seattle 
$10 members, $15 nonmembers 
 the stone is an orphan 
&mdash;C.G. Jung 
 What happens to the psyche of one who has been held, for 
 most of her adult life, in the container of a Jungian analysis, 
 after termination? The magnet has been strong, the center has 
 held, then it is gone. As Jung says: "In the dark of the enigma the psyche gazes at 
 herself." 
 What happens now? Does she fly into many fragments? Do the old hob goblins 
 return? Or is she revealed to herself in her clearly faceted, crystalline, essential 
 nature? 
 There are as many versions of this story as there are those who come to the end 
 of a long analysis. This version will be told as it has been informed by alchemy 
 and the making of poems. 
 Writing As Spiritual Practice 
 Workshop: Saturday, December 11, 2004, 10 a.m. to 2:30 p.m . 
 Good Shepherd Center, Room 202, 4649 Sunnyside Ave. N., Seattle 
$30 members, $40 nonmembers, $25 student/senior members, $35 student/senior nonmembers 
 To learn about preregistering for the workshop, see Preregistration Policy and Form . 
 esse in anima (be in the soul) 
&mdash;C.G. Jung 
 If, with Jung, you understand the Self , the sacred, as the unconscious, then writing 
 out of a connection to the unconscious is a spiritual practice. 
 In this workshop we will learn how to cultivate our own sacred language. We will 
 listen to poems that express the divine. We will use writing exercises to open 
 ourselves to our deepest words.
 For those who write and those who want to write. 
 Naomi Lowinsky Ph.D. , is a widely published poet, an Analyst member of the 
 San Francisco Institute, poetry and fiction editor for Psychological Perspectives , and an 
 editor for the San Francisco Jung Institute Library Journal . Her book of poems, red 
 clay is talking , was published in 2000. A second book, crimes of the dreamer , containing 
 poems about analysis, is forthcoming.

 C.G. Jung Society, Seattle home page 
 Updated: 11 September 2004 

 webmaster@jungseattle.org