C.G. Jung Society, Seattle: Fall 2004 Newsletter 

 C.G. Jung Society, Seattle 

 Amy Mindell, Ph.D. and Arny Mindell, Ph.D. 

 Connections Between Psychology & Physics with Special Focus on Body Symptoms 
 Lecture: Friday, October 15, 2004, 7:30 to 9:30 p.m. 
 Trinity Church, Eighth & James St., Seattle ( Directions ) 
$10 members, $15 nonmembers 
 CEUs available 
 Quantum physics is based on 
 immeasurable mathematical patterns such as the quantum wave function. There 
 are various ways of understanding this math; one explanation is that the math is 
 just a pattern, which works in reality. Another explanation is that the math 
 describes tendencies toward reality. A third explanation is that the math describes 
 coexisting worlds. Psychology adds another possibility: the math of physics is an 
 unconscious projection of what we experience all the time; the tendency to 
 marginalize our deepest dimensions. This marginalization lies imbedded in the 
 math of physics, and is behind what we normally call reality . The same process of 
 marginalization may also be an aspect of how body symptoms arise. Pondering basic 
 connecting principles between psychology and the sciences leads to practical ways 
 of working with body problems. Process-oriented symptom work combines the 
 thinking of psychology and physics through direct somatic experience available to 
 everyone.
 The Quantum & Dreaming Body: Finding Relief and Meaning in Body Symptoms 
 Workshop: Saturday, October 16, 2004, 10 a.m. to 2:30 p.m . 
 Trinity Church, Eighth & James St., Seattle ( Directions ) 
 $30 members, $40 nonmembers, $25 student/senior members, $35 student/senior nonmembers 
 CEUs available 
 To learn about preregistering for the workshop, see Preregistration Policy and Form . 
 In this workshop on body symptoms, Amy and Arny Mindell will demonstrate 
 and give participants a chance to work deeply upon a chronic body symptom. By 
 learning how to describe the sensory grounded nature of such symptoms, they introduce process-oriented ways to address the medical reality of symptoms, and the dreams and essence or quantum background to the symptom. This is an 
 experiential workshop; participants should be prepared for inner experience and gentle movement work.
 Amy Mindell, Ph.D. , is in private therapeutic practice in Portland, Oregon and 
 teaches in over thirty countries. She helped developed process-oriented 
 psychology in the areas of ethics, coma, and dance and music. She holds an M.A. 
 and Ph.D. in psychology and is a diplomate of the Process Oriented Psychology 
 Center of Zurich. She wrote Metaskills: The Spiritual Art of Therapy , Riding the Horse 
 Backwards with Arny, Coma, a Healing Journey , and An Alternative to Therapy as well as 
 many papers in professional journals. Her studies of the feeling skills in therapy, 
 or metaskills , are at the core of much of her work. She is presently doing research 
 on creativity and making puppets.
 Arny Mindell, Ph.D. , is also in private practice in Portland, Oregon, and teaches 
 with Amy in many places. He is known for his development of the dreambody and 
 process work (process-oriented psychology). He is the author of 19 books in 20 
 languages, including Dreambody , The Shaman&rsquo;s Body , Quantum Mind , and The Deep 
 Democracy of Open Forums . Arny has an M.S. from M.I.T., was a Jungian training 
 Analyst, and has a Ph.D. in psychology. He is also known in the area of conflict 
 resolution for his Sitting in the Fire and for his integration of psychology and 
 physics, work on dreams, bodywork, relationship, and for interventions in near-death situations. 
 For more information on Amy and Arny Mindell, please visit www.aamindell.net . 

 C.G. Jung Society, Seattle home page 

 Updated: 11 September 2004 

 webmaster@jungseattle.org