C.G. Jung Society, Seattle: Fall 2004 Newsletter 

 C.G. Jung Society, Seattle 

 Joe Wagenseller, D.Min., N.C.Psy.A. 

 Individuation&#8212;Jung's Psychological Equivalent of a Spiritual Journey 
 Lecture: Friday, November 19, 2004, 7:30 to 9:30 p.m. 
 Good Shepherd Center, Room 202, 4649 Sunnyside Ave. N., Seattle 
$10 members, $15 nonmembers 
 For Carl Jung, Individuation is a lifelong process through which 
 we seek to discern our individual destinies as the Self challenges 
 us to become who we were meant to be. In this lecture, we will 
 explore what Jung meant when he referred to his concept of 
 Individuation as a psychological equivalent to a spiritual journey. 
 We will consider the archetypal dimension of the psyche as manifested in some of 
 the major themes of the great world religions and how they occur in the 
 psychological experiences of modern-day men and women. 
 Special attention will be given to the second half of life, during which unresolved 
 issues from the past press upon us with intensity, challenging us with opportunities 
 for renewal. The mid-life experience-whether crisis, upheaval, or gradual 
 intensification to get on with our lives-offers an opportunity for a creative 
 response to what may be unpleasant or troubling symptoms. These symptoms, 
 understood symbolically, take on the significance of the Call, and aspect of the 
 Archetype of Vocation, bringing a new sense of meaning, purpose, and identity. 
 Included in our reflections will be a consideration of the ego-Self axis, the
 teleological function of the Self and the prospective/synthetic approach to 
 symptomatology, including Jung&rsquo;s unique &ldquo;redemptive attitude&rdquo; toward the shadow.
 For a reading list provided by Joe Wagenseller, see the current edition of Inside Pages (.pdf). 
 The life of Christ, 
 understood 
 psychologically, 
 represents the 
 vicissitudes of the 
 Self as it undergoes 
 incarnation in an 
 individual ego. 
&mdash;Edward Edinger, The Christian 
 Archetype 
 Joe Wagenseller, D.Min., N.C.Psy.A. , is a Jungian Analyst, graduate of the C.G. Jung Institute of New York, practicing in New York City and Westport,
 Connecticut. Current president of the C. G. Jung Institute of New York and the
 Temenos Institute, Inc. of Westport, he is the author of &ldquo;The Archetype of Vocation&rdquo; in Protestantism and Jungian Analysis and &ldquo;Spiritual Renewal at Midlife from a Jungian Perspective&rdquo; in the Journal of Religion and Health (Vol. 37. No. 3). He is a member of the Board of Trustees of the American Board for Accreditation in Psychoanalysis and is an Associate Professor at the Graduate Department of Clinical Psychology Teachers College, Columbia University, NYC. He lives with his wife Virginia and their family in Westport, Connecticut.

 C.G. Jung Society, Seattle home page 
 Updated: 11 September 2004 

 webmaster@jungseattle.org