The 1968 Apple Watch 

 This " Old England "
 watch was originally sold at the Beatles Apple
 Boutique on Baker Street in swinging London's famous Chelsea section in
 1968 and also were given away as promos to friends. The grand opening of the
 Apple boutique was 5 December 1967 and it closed due to financial problems 8
 months later, 30 July 1968. The Beatles ordered the staff to give everything
 away. The night before the big giveaway, the Beatles, their wives, friends and
 staff, went to the boutique and picked up the things they wanted. The inventory
 of these Apple watches became the property of the Apple Press Office and they
 used them as gifts to some of their visiting guests and VIP&#146;s. This
 " Apple " watch was designed by Richard
 Loftus. Richard Loftus was a designer for the Accurist watch company, maker of
 fine, 21 jeweled, watches that were "made to last a lifetime" and Accurist set
 out to change this by introducing fashion into watches. Richard Loftus, fresh
 out of University, created a range of watches that was to revolutionise the
 watch market worldwide. Soon Accurist's "Old England" watches were seen
 on the wrists of the famous and fashionable: - Princess Anne, The Beatles and
 Twiggy were amongst the millions worldwide who wore the large brightly coloured
 watches that became synonymous with the mini skirt, Carnaby Street and London
 of the swinging 60's. 

 No one seems to know how
 many of these were produced for sale at the boutique but I guess the question
 should be "How many survived to this day?" The watch is copyrighted
 1967. They came packaged in two different ways, a long black box with gold
 print or a leather pouch. This is a wind-up watch. The band usually came in
 suede but some were made out of leather (I've heard from a good source.) As you
 can see in the photo they came with a hang-tag that says "Old
 England." These watches are very rare in any condition but even more so
 in near mint with all of the original packaging. 

 More history of the Accurist Watch Company 

 Accurist is a
 unique British watchmaking enterprise. It was founded in London&#146;s
 clockmaking district of Clerkenwell in 1938 by Asher and Rebecca Loftus,
 importers of Swiss timepieces. But the real beginning of its growth can be
 dated to 1946 when they decided to launch their own brand in the UK. 
 The name they settled upon was Accurist, because, they cleverly argued, their
 timepieces were both accurate and on the wrist! Accurist became the
 first watch company in this country actively to promote the 21-jewel lever
 movement. Soon it was running national advertising campaigns on television,
 which was most unusual in the postwar years. Meanwhile three sons were
 growing up. Today the eldest, Anthony, and the second-born, Richard , are
 non-executive directors, while the youngest, Andrew Loftus, is the Managing
 Director. It was Andrew who came up with the idea of a series of quartz watches
 branded Old England . They were a huge
 success in the 1960s with their brightly coloured dials featuring the national
 flag and brand names such as Pepsi-Cola. Wearers at the time included the
 Beatles , Twiggy and Princess Anne. In the
 1960s London was swinging and Carnaby Street the rage place to visit.
 Andrew Loftus contends today that in a clear sense his range of watches
 anticipated the early Swatches of the next decade. Accurist followed up these
 successes with a range of 9 carat gold watches at highly affordable retail
 prices, and then when L.E.D. and L.C.D. movements were developed, the brand got
 in on the act with a digital quartz watch. It was the preferred watch for all
 pilots of the newly launched Concorde plane. In 1983 the first Accurist
 watches to be produced in Japan were launched in the UK market, increasing the
 company&#146;s turnover by 500% in the following three years. Accurist has
 always had a knack for self-promotion, and in the late 1980s this north London
 company pulled off a masterstroke with its sponsorship of British
 Telecom&#146;s Speaking Clock. The promotion continues today, and if
 you dial (in the UK) 123 to find out the exact time of the day, the first thing
 you will hear is &#147;At the third stroke, the time sponsored by Accurist
 is&#133;&#148;. The 1990s saw steady expansion and as the Millennium
 approached Andrew Loftus had the idea of providing a Millennium Countdown clock
 at the Royal Observatory in Greenwich. (Following the establishment of the
 International Time Zone system for the whole world in October 1881 in
 Washington DC, a single world meridian was fixed at Greenwich, in south-east
 London, as Longitude 0&ordm;.) From July 1996 the clock got to work on the
 meridian line itself at the exact point where the UK officially entered the new
 Millennium. A few years earlier, in 1993, Accurist became the Royal
 Observatory&#146;s official timekeeper. At Greenwich today there is a digital
 clock proclaiming the name Accurist along with the time. A legend reads
 &#147;Greenwich Mean Time: This clock records the time for the world&#148;. The
 connection with Greenwich continues. Accurist has just launched the Greenwich
 Commemorative Collection. Rear Admiral Roy Clare is Director of both the
 National Maritime Museum and the Royal Observatory. He says: &#147;I personally
 thank Accurist for its continuing support and congratulate them on producing a
 superb new range of watches that commemorate the qualities that have been
 associated with Greenwich for more than 300 years.&#148; One of the first
 models is the new Grand Complication with the traditional features such as
 perpetual calendar, a repeating mechanism, a chronograph, a sweep second giving
 both split and lap times, a home indicator for travellers and a moon phase
 display. However, Accurist is not all tradition! In the last year or so
 it has been capturing a huge market for a watch under its other brand, Accu.2.
 It is called The Real Bling. It has a broad cuff bracelet studded with
 Swarovski crystals in a variety of sizes, colours and styles. It has been
 quickly picked up by film and pop stars and supermodels. The word
 &#147;bling&#148; apparently arrived from the Caribbean via a rap performer. It
 seems to mean &#147;oversized, overstated&#133; sort of in-your-face
 glitter&#148;. That sort of thing! Accurist enjoys sales of over 1 million
 units a year through more than 2,500 points of sale, and does not distribute
 timepieces for any other company. Andrew Loftus has two sons and fends off
 constant takeover approaches with ease and pleasure. 

 The End!! 
 Back to previous page