Science Fair Idea Exchange: BIOLOGY 

IDEAS EXCHANGE 
 | SCIENCE HOBBYIST 
 | SCIENCE CLUB 

 SCIENCE FAIR IDEA EXCHANGE 
 BIOLOGY 

 WARNING : MANY SCIENCE FAIRS FORBID
ANIMALS! Most schools are leery
of kids doing animal experiments, even insect experiments. Check your
school's rules before considering anything with a hamster or even a
spider. 

 JUMP DOWN TO: 

 SIMPLE PROJECTS 
 MEDIUM DIFFICULTY 
 ADVANCED PROJECTS 

 TRY THIS TOO: 

SCICLUB email chat (message archive) 

How to join SCICLUB email chat 

PHYSICS TOYS , billb's list 

KIDS' SCIENCE PROJECTS HERE 

 BIOLOGY 

 CHEMISTRY 

 PHYSICS 

 PSYCHOLOGY 

 HIGHLY recommended by BillB:

 No, they didn't pay me to say that. Archie Mcphee
is just a really cool store, 
so I thought I'd give 'em a free ad. 

 SIMPLE PROJECTS 

 Um, this project is not that good, but it's real easy. All you
have to do is get a few kinds of plants and put them under real
or artificial light, or in the dark, and you observe them, so,
if they're dying or wilting, then that light doesn't work as
good as the other ones. If you need more help (if you like this
one), please mail me. You can do it if you want. 
Justine Smith < mssmith@eastnet.educ.ecu.edu > 
 NC USA - Monday, January 06, 1997 at 15:18:37 (PST) 

 Here's one. Which type of food molds the fastest
when placed in the same place. You could use banana's, bread, cheese,etc.

 mgh < enbtoma@aol.com > 
Sarasota, Fl USA - Thursday, January 02, 1997 at 16:20:14 (PST) 

 Last year I did a science fair project about the affects of gravity on
growing plants. After the bean plants grew for about a week or two, I
turned them on their side. Eventually they would start to turn upwards,
away from gravity. Then I measured the angle with a protractor. The
plants were amazing! They really grow away from the gravitational pull!
(also you can obsurve the roots as they grow toward gravity.) 
allison 
 va USA - Thursday, December 12, 1996 at 16:44:11 (PST) 

 [NOTE: NOBODY HAS BEEN ABLE TO GET THIS ONE TO DO ANYTHING]
I Did a project to dentermine if the processing of food produces gas.
I took the fresh, canned, and frozen veggies and grounded them up and
mixed each with vineger put them in test tubes and placed a balloon over
the tube and measured the gas in the ballon. This won first place in the
school and regional scienc fairs.

Doug Warren 
pampa, TX USA - Tuesday, December 10, 1996 at 20:51:35 (PST) 

 I did a science fair project on how earthworms affect our soil. I put 2
kinds of soil(potting soil on top, clay soil on the bottom) in a glass
jar. I put earthworms in it and fedd them cornmeal and carrot slices. Then
I put them in a dark place. I watched them for a month. My project proved
that you can no-till plant and you don't have to plow before you plant. I
won an award from our county Soil and Conservation group. It was cool to
watch the worms. Becareful! The worms are quick!

Brad Roberts < droberts@logan.net > 
Rushsylvania, Oh USA - Tuesday, December 10, 1996 at 16:23:17 (PST) 

 As a former school teacher an science fair coordinator, I have seen
many good projects. One of the most unusual, cheapest, and successful
project was "Which grows faster, hair or fur?" This student simply shaved
a measured patch on his head and the same size patch on his dog. He
measured regularly and recorded his results on a chart. He also backed
up his data with photos. The judges loved it. I won't tell you the
results. You will have to try this yourself to find out. 
 K. Ludovice < Macalaster@aol.com > 
Houston, TX USA - Sunday, December 08, 1996 at 11:28:39 (PST) 

 How about testing which is better for a plant, soil grown or
 hydroponicly grow. Also test out different kinds of water
(tap, carbonhydrated, mineral, etc.) Hope you have fun!!!

Ray G. 
Missisauga, ONT CANADA - Saturday, December 07, 1996 at 09:22:40 (PST) 

 I did an expeirment on "Substitute Fertilizer," I used five natural
substite fertilizers that their decomposition would make it a good
fertilizer. I was a sophomore and I got the highest grade in the
class. 
Hugo Takacs St.Charles, MMMMo USA - Friday, November 29, 1996 at
17:03:15 (PST) 

 One science prodgect would be watering plants with tap water and
different plants with carbonated water, and see which one grows
better. 
Sara Robertson < ">Robbie > 
Kernersville, NC USA - Saturday, November 23, 1996 at 13:36:03 (PST) 

 The Project I did was I compared how the different plant foods affected
the growth of the different plants. I used 3 different plant foods and
measured the growth of the plants. I thought it was a very fun project for
me.

Amanda 
Casper, Wy USA - Thursday, December 26, 1996 at 16:15:25 (PST) 

 QUESTION:DOES THE KIND OF SOIL AFFECT PLANT GROWTH? 
Katie Spittle < camboh.spittleg > 
 Oh USA - Thursday, November 21, 1996 at 09:43:29 (PST) 

 MEDIUM DIFFICULTY PROJECTS 

 It won me first prize in the science fair. If you really go in depth
with it you can go a long way. I did the process of making chjocolate
from cacao beans. lauren 
 USA - Monday, December 30, 1996 at 10:52:00 (PST) 

 My idea was to see what dogbone/treat that dogs liked best.
What you do is first find 5 to 10 dogs around your neighborhood
and set the bones/treats infront of them and let them pick what one they want
do repeted trials. 
Nole Stay 
Bemidji, MN USA - Monday, December 30, 1996 at 09:40:54 (PST) 

 Why not test effect of music as on plant growth. This would
be the expirimental variable. Other variables should be
 controlled (I.E.: amount of water, temperature, etc.). 
 Ranob < none > 
Lauguna Niguel, CA USA - Thursday, December 05, 1996 at 20:06:12 (PST) 

 BIO-RUSTING I heard someone theorizing that the normal rusting
process of iron might depend on bacterial action. If bacteria are not
present, will iron rust extremely slowly? It shouldn't be too hard to see
if this is true. Get two glass jars and two iron nails. Clean the iron
with sandpaper to get rid of any oily coating. Fill the jars with
distilled water. Drop in the iron. One jar should have normal bacteria
from the environment, so add a small bit of dirt. Put a tiny bit of
powerful bactericide in the other jar. (Or sterilize it in the same way
you do "canning" at home) Wait a few days, and see if one piece of iron
obviously rusts more than the other. What kind of bactericide to use? I
dunno, maybe anti-bacterial hand soap. Better put some normal soap in the
other jar as a control, since I don't know if soap affects rusting too. 
Nobody has tried this project yet, as far as I know. If it doesn't work,
it still is interesting: it tells you that bacteria doesn't accelerate
rusting. Search for: IRON BACTERIA, IRON-LOVING BACTERIA, IRON-EATING
BACTERIA, NANNOBACTERIA, HYPERTHERMOPHILES. 
(I recently heard that those big chunks of rust that cover the sunken ship
Titanic are full of iron bacteria. Titanic is being eaten by bacteria!)
(The possible bacteria in the "Martian meteorite" would be iron-eating
bacteria.) (Iron-eating bacteria may be one of Earth's earliest life
forms.)

 Bill Beaty 
 USA - Wednesday, September 18, 1996 at 23:13:49 (PDT) 

 ADVANCED PROJECTS 

 Does alchohol affect a spiders ability to spins its web? This project
got me to the nationals, and it was a lot of fun to see what would happen. 

Zachary Kamen 
Koloa, Hi. USA - Monday, December 30, 1996 at 19:27:34 (PST) 

 I did a science fair project called "Could Earth organisms survive on
Mars?" 
 Joshua Hedges < SFlippin@southshore.com > 
Flippin, AR USA - Monday, December 30, 1996 at 15:06:21 (PST) 

 Our science project was to construct a anaerobic digester. A one
gallon jar was used. A plastic T was placed through the lid. a plastic
tube was attached to a bicycle inner tube. and the other end of the t was
attached a plastic tube to a burner. The jar was filled with chicken
manure and water. After a time methane was produced and lit. The whole
apparatus was built to resemble a power station.... It went over quite
well. 
Thomas Halay < halayt@newreach.net > 
Ravenna, Oh USA - Saturday, December 28, 1996 at 14:11:55 (PST) 

 The project I did last year was I tried to see if mice really
liked cheese.If you want to do this project you have to get a lot
of mice and differnt kinds of cheese.Project was really fun,and I
a good grade.WARNING!If you hate or are scared of mice,this project
is not for you!!

Janine Janitor Luna, I don't have one if you want to reach me write a
letter to St.Thomas More school,920 Carmicheal St.,Chapel hill,NC,27514

Chapel Hiil, Nc USA - Thursday, December 26, 1996 at 13:25:49 (PST) 

 My SF idea is:

 Materials:
 2 baby gerbils
 2 ten-gallon aquariums
 gerbil food
 1 bottle gerbil vitamins
 bedding
 metric weight scale
WHAT TO DO

1. Put each gerbil in a separate auquarium.
2. Weigh each gerbil and record it.
3. Give 1 gerbil vitamins in his food(feed them a set
amount and feed them at the same times).
4. Weigh each gerbil every other day and keep a record.
5. Repeat steps 3 and 4 until SF.
6. The little guys (let's hope you didn't get a guy and gal
gerbils multiply very rapidly)as pets. 
 Brennan Keil < keil@erols.com > 
Joppa, Md USA - Sunday, December 15, 1996 at 05:00:52 (PST) 

 More science fair ideas can be had at
 SCIENCE CLUB
 webpage.
Don't miss the 
Hand-drawn Hologram project.
Go here to
find links to other sites for science fair ideas.

Bill B < billb@eskimo.com > 
 USA - Friday, November 22, 1996 at 15:53:59 (PST) 

 BIOLOGY 

 CHEMISTRY 

 PHYSICS 

 PSYCHOLOGY 

 Back to SCIENCE HOBBYIST 

Scripts and Guestbook created by Matt Wright and can be found at Matt's Script Archive