AAUW English As A Second Language Project; Federal Way (WA) Branch 

 AAUW English As A Second Language Project 

Federal Way (WA) Branch 

 An invitation: Members of the Federal Way Branch of the American Association of University Women invite you to join with them in helping community members from other countries improve their skills in English conversation and, in the process, learn more about life in the United States.

 Background: The AAUW Educational Foundation awarded the Federal Way, Washington, Branch a grant to assist in the preparation of a leader's guide and student workbook for its English As a Second Language Conversation Class. Since 1991 the Federal Way Branch has presented its classes to the Federal Way community, combining friendly conversation with information about schools, emergency services, transportation, housing, insurance, the courts and police, etc. Now the materials used in the class will be available for other classes to use.

 Book Orders: Prices and an order form are available on-line at: http://www.kirklandplaza.com/webco/order.html . Payments received from on-line orders will be donated to the Educational Foundation of the American Association of University Women .

 Project Description 

 Leader's Guide: The Federal Way Branch ESL Project has created an on-line Leader's Guide to help volunteers create and run community-based English-As-A-Second-Language conversation classes. 

 Student Workbooks: The primary purpose of the Federal Way ESL Project was to create low-cost workbooks which could be provided free or at minimal cost to students in community-based ESL classes. Unlike the typical textbooks, these booklets have materials of various levels of difficulty, since community-based conversation classes often attract persons whose language skills range from beginner to expert. The focus of all the workbooks is on practical knowledge and conversation for life in U.S. communities.

 Community Life in the U.S.A.: The Community Life in the U.S.A. series consists of four 24-page workbooks for community-based English As A Second Language conversation classes. They include the topics listed below. Click on the name of a topic to view the text of a sample activity. The actual workbooks contain seven activities for each topic as well as illustrations.

Book 1

 Chapter 1: Families 

 Chapter 2: Holidays 

 Chapter 3: Clubs and Volunteerism 

 Chapter 4: Government 

Book 2

 Chapter 1: Education 

 Chapter 2: Libraries 

 Chapter 3: Job-hunting 

 Chapter 4: Money Management 

Book 3

 Chapter 1: Health 

 Chapter 2: Emergency Services 

 Chapter 3: Public Safety 

 Chapter 4: Courts 

Book 4

 Chapter 1: Food 

 Chapter 2: Shopping 

 Chapter 3: Housing 

 Chapter 4: Insurance 

 On-line resources for ESL classes 

 American Association of University Women information sheet in English or Spanish 

 News release for ESL class in English or Spanish 

 News release for AAUW-sponsored ESL class in English or Spanish 

 ESL class registration form 

 Flyer for AAUW ESL class

 Please contact us: You can reach us by e-mail (cjh@kirklandplaza.com) . 

 About AAUW: 

The American Association of University Women is a national membership organization of women and men which was founded in 1881. Based in Washington, D.C., AAUW has local branches in every state. The American Association of University Women promotes equity for all women and girls, lifelong education, and positive societal change. The Federal Way Branch of AAUW, which was founded in 1964, values the friendship among its diverse members and provides strong, creative leadership relating to education, the status of women and girls, and innovative community programs. Members are stimulated by the exchange of ideas and are supported in taking risks to achieve personal and AAUW goals.

The ESL Project Director is Carolyn Hayek (cjh@kirklandplaza.com) . 

 Diversity Statement: In principle and practice, the American Association of University Women values and seeks a diverse membership. There shall be no barriers to full participation in this organization on the basis of gender, race, creed, age, sexual orientation, national origin, or disability.

 Membership: AAUW welcomes new members. Membership is open to those with a bachelor's or higher degree from a regionally-accredited institution. Undergraduates enrolled in a regionally-accredited two- or four-year institution may become student affiliates. U.S. citizenship is not required. Degrees earned in other countries are accepted for membership.