University Challenge! 

 University Challenge! 
 Test Your University Library 

If you belong to a university or a teaching establishment which takes pride in its scientific efforts, especially in the field of physics, here is a test you can perform to judge its calibre. You will surely agree that the library resources available to you and those who teach you should not preclude access to knowledge pertaining to major breakthroughs concerning the theory of gravitation and the creation of the proton. If your library does not stock the scientific periodicals 'Physics Essays' covering the years 1988-1995 and 'Hadronic Journal' covering the years 1986-89, then you are denied knowledge of those breakthroughs. Test your library. Chances are that the periodicals are not on your library shelves. There are 14 papers in those periodicals that are of special importance. They are all reprinted in a book, published in 1996: 'Aether Science Papers' , (author: Harold Aspden). Check your library index. Is that book on your library shelves? If not, you would do well to ask your librarian to procure a copy - if only to make it easier for your teachers to learn about physics as it will be taught in the future! Its reference is ISBN 0 85056 0152. For order information see the Books and Publications section of these pages. 

In science there is a great deal of rivalry between those who seek to promote their brand of knowledge. It leads to suppression of what is new if that can mean a step back down the slope of one's learning curve. It leads to libraries stocking only the books and periodicals which 'toe the line' and build only on the errors of the past. If you wish to make your mark on science, you must examine the options and judge for yourself, and, in particular, you must try to judge your teachers on their merits, before you believe all that they say. The challenge, your 'university challenge', is to check whether your physics teachers are interested in gravitation and particle creation, enough to join you in wanting to read what is disclosed in the above-referenced book. 

 h.aspden@physics.org 
March 15, 1998