Tabernacle Shadows, Footnotes 

 TABERNACLE SHADOWS 

 Footnotes 

 1) 

 In the English translation this is frequently, though improperly, called
the "holy place ," and in such instances the word place will be found in
italics, indicating that it has been supplied by the translators, as, for
instance, in `Exod. 26:33`. This error is quite confusing, as the "Court" was
properly called the "holy place." When place is not in italics, the "Court"
is always meant. See `Lev. 14:13 and 6:26,27`. In some instances the
"Holy" is termed the "Tabernacle of the congregation." 

 2) 

 The word spiritual in this text is omitted by the oldest Greek MS, the
Sinaitic, with evident propriety. Not spiritual but human rights, privileges,
life, etc., are sacrificed. 

 3) 

 `Exodus 30:30` refers to the anointing of Aaron and his sons . The thought is
that each of Aaron's sons who succeeded to the High Priest's office was to
be anointed in his turn, as Aaron himself was anointed at the beginning. 

 4) 

 See Scripture Studies, Vol. I, Chap. X, and Vol. II, p. 126. 

 5) 

 As we come more clearly to realize the high attainment of character required
of all who will ever be accorded everlasting life on any plane, and
how very few seem to make any serious profession of or attempt at perfect 
 love as a governing principle in their lives, we are led to wonder if the two
sons of Aaron who were destroyed by the Lord were not intended to typify
the large proportion of consecrated and spirit-begotten ones who have
failed to reach the high standard of heart necessary, and who will consequently
not be worthy of any life, but will, on the contrary, sink into
oblivion--the Second Death. 

 6) 

 Scripture Studies, Vol. I, Chap. V. 

 7) 

 Scripture Studies, Vol I, p.185. 

 8) 

 By some means the translators of the Common Version Bible mistranslated
 hilasterion "propitiation." The word hilasmos , signifying satisfaction ,
is properly translated "propitiation" in `1 John 2:2 and 4:10`.