Tabernacle Shadows, Study I - The Typical Tabernacle 

 <11> 

 STUDY I 
 THE TYPICAL TABERNACLE 

 The Camp--The Court--The Tabernacle--The Brazen Altar--The Laver-- 
 The Table--The Lampstand--The Golden Altar--The Mercy Seat and 
 Ark--The Gate--The First Veil--The Second Veil--The Significance of 
 These and Their Antitypes.

 THE Tabernacle which God commanded the people of Israel
to construct in the Wilderness of Sin, and in connection
with which all their religious services and ceremonies were
instituted, was, the Apostle Paul assures us, a shadow of
good things to come. (`Heb. 8:5; 10:1`; `Col. 2:17`) In fact, the
whole nation of Israel, as well as its laws and its religious
services and ceremonies, was typical. This being true, our
understanding of the plan and work of salvation now in
progress, as well as their future development, cannot fail to
be greatly enlightened by a careful study of those "shadows"
which the Israelites, for our edification, were caused to
repeat year by year continually until the Gospel age introduced
their antitypes--the realities. `1 Pet. 1:11`;
`Heb. 10:1-3` 

 It is not simply to gain a historical knowledge of the Jewish
forms, ceremonies and worship that we come to the investigation

 <12> 

of this subject, but that we may be edified by
understanding the substance from an examination of the
shadow--as God designed in arranging it. 

 We shall fail to attach sufficient weight and importance
to the shadow unless we realize how carefully God guided
and directed all of its details. First, he took Moses up into
the mount and gave him an illustration of the manner in
which things were to be made; Secondly, he charged him to
be careful of every particular--"See, saith he, that thou
make all things according to the pattern shewed to thee in
the mount." (`Heb. 8:5`; `Exod. 25:40`) So, too, with all the
minutiae of the service: every jot and tittle had to be
exactly performed in the type, because it illustrated something
greater and more important to come afterward. And
in order that these shadows might all be exactly performed,
and that the people might not become careless, the usual
penalty for any violation was death. For instances see `Exod. 28:43`;
`Num. 4:15,20; 17:13`; `2 Sam. 6:6,7`; `Lev. 10:1,2` 

 Realizing God's care in making the "shadow" should not
only give us confidence in its correctness, that not one jot or
tittle of it shall fail until all be fulfilled (`Matt. 5:18`), but
should also awaken in us so great an interest in God's plan
as would lead us to examine closely and search carefully for
the meaning of those shadows. And this, with God's promised
blessing, we now purpose to do, assured that among
those who are truly God's consecrated ones--his children
begotten of his Spirit--"he that seeketh findeth; and to him
that knocketh, it shall be opened."

 The Tabernacle's Construction

 The directions given to Moses for the construction of the
Tabernacle may be found in `Exod. 25 to 27`, and the account
of the performance of the work, in `Exod. 35 to 40`.
Briefly stated, the Tabernacle was a house constructed of a

 <13> 

series of boards of shittim ( acacia ) wood, "overlaid" or
plated with gold, set on end into sockets of silver, and firmly
fastened together by bars of the same wood, also covered
with gold. 

 This structure was 15 feet wide, 15 feet high and 45 feet
long, and open at the front or east end. It was covered by a
large white linen cloth, interwoven with figures of cherubim,
in blue, purple and scarlet. The open end, or front of
the structure, was closed by a curtain of similar material to
the covering cloth, called the "Door," or first veil . Another
cloth of the same material, similarly woven with figures of
cherubim, called the "Veil" (or second veil), was hung so
that it divided the Tabernacle into two apartments. The
first or larger apartment, 15 feet wide and 30 feet long, was
called the "Holy." 1 The second or rear apartment, 15 feet
wide and 15 feet long, was called the "Most Holy." These
two apartments constituted the Tabernacle proper; and a
tent was erected over them for shelter. It was made of a covering
of cashmere cloth or goat hair, another of ram skins
dyed red, and another of seal skins (mistranslated badger
skins). 

 The "Most Holy," or "Sanctuary," is also sometimes called the "Holy
 place "-- place in italics. Instances, `Lev. 16:17,20,23`. In referring to
 these apartments, we will call them, severally, the "Court," "The Holy" and
 "The Most Holy." 

 A lack of appreciation of the interest of Christians in these typical
 pictures and of the necessity for uniform exactness, on the part of the
 translators of Leviticus, must have been the cause of the varied translations
 which have so aided in confusing the student.

 <14> 

 The Holy Court or Holy Place

 The Tabernacle was surrounded by a yard, or "Court,"
toward the rear of which it stood. This court, 75 feet wide
and 150 feet long, was formed by a fence of linen curtains,
suspended from silver hooks, set in the tops of wooden posts
7 1/2 feet high, which were set in heavy sockets of copper
(mistranslated brass), and braced, like the tent which covered
the Tabernacle, with cords and pins. This enclosure
was all holy ground, and was therefore called the "Holy
Place"--also the "Court of the Tabernacle." Its opening,
like the door of the Tabernacle, was towards the east, and
was called the "Gate." This "Gate" was of white linen, interwoven
with blue, purple and scarlet. 

 It will be noticed that the three entrance passages, viz.,
the "Gate" into the "Court," the "Door" into the "Holy"
and the "Veil" into the "Most Holy," were of the same material
and colors. Outside the Tabernacle and its "Court"
was the "Camp" of Israel surrounding it on all sides at a
respectful distance.

 THE BRAZEN ALTAR

 <15> 

 The Furnishments

 The furniture of the "Court" consisted of but two main
pieces: the "Brazen Altar" and the "Laver"--with their respective
implements. 

 Just inside the gate, and immediately in front of it, stood
the "Brazen Altar." This altar was made of wood and covered
with copper, and was 7 1/2 feet square and 4 1/2 feet high.
Various utensils belonged to its service--fire pans (called
censers), for carrying the fire to the "Incense Altar," basins
to receive the blood, flesh hooks, shovels, etc.

 THE LAVER

 Next, between the "Brazen Altar" and the door of the
Tabernacle, was the "Laver." It was made of polished copper,
and was a receptacle for water; at it the priests washed
before entering the Tabernacle. 

 The furniture of the Tabernacle consisted of a "Table," a
"Candlestick" and an "Incense Altar" in the "Holy," and
the "Ark of the Testimony" in the "Most Holy."

 THE TABLE OF SHEW-BREAD

 <16> 

 Within the Tabernacle, in the first apartment, the
"Holy," on the right (north), stood the Table of "Shewbread"--
a wooden table overlaid with gold; and upon it
were placed twelve cakes of unleavened bread in two piles,
with frankincense on top of each pile. (`Lev. 24:6,7`) This

 THE GOLDEN CANDLESTICK

bread was proper for the priests only to eat: it was holy, and
was renewed every seventh or Sabbath day. 

 Opposite the "Table of Shew-bread" stood the "Candlestick,"
made of pure gold, beaten work (hammered out),

 THE THE 

 GOLDEN ALTAR INCENSE ALTAR

having seven branches, and in each branch a lamp. It was
the only light in the "Holy"; for, as we have seen, the natural
light was obscured by the walls and curtains, and
there were no windows. Its seven lamps were cared for,
trimmed, supplied with oil, etc., by the High Priest himself,

 <17> 

who at such times was to offer incense at the Golden Altar. 

 Farther on, close up to the "Veil," stood a small altar, of
wood covered with gold, called the "Golden Altar" or "Incense
Altar." It had no fire upon it except what the priests
brought in the censers which they set in the top of this
"Golden Altar," and then crumbled the incense upon it,
causing it to give forth a fragrant smoke or perfume, which,
filling the "Holy," penetrated also beyond the "second veil"
into the Most Holy or Holy of Holies.

 THE ARK OF THE TESTIMONY

 Beyond the "Veil," in the "Most Holy," there was but
one piece of furniture--the "Ark." It was a rectangular box
made of wood overlaid with gold, having a lid or cover of
pure gold called the Propitiatory or "Mercy Seat." Upon it
(and of the same piece), were two cherubs of gold--beaten
work. Within this "Ark" (under the Propitiatory) were
placed the golden bowl of manna, Aaron's rod that budded,
and the two tables of the Law. (`Heb. 9:4`) Upon the
Propitiatory a supernatural light appeared, shining out between
the cherubim, representing the Divine presence. This
was the only light in the "Most Holy." 

 It is noticeable that all the furniture inside the Tabernacle

 <18> 

was of gold, or covered with gold, while in the
"Court" everything was of copper. Wood, which was the
base covered with these metals, was used, we believe, to
make the articles of lighter weight, more easily portable,
than if of solid metal. This was an important consideration
when they traveled. The vessels of the Temple, representative
of the same things, were of solid metals. (`1 Kings 7:47-50`)
These two metals, gold and copper, were used, we think,
to represent two different natures--copper representing the
 human nature in its perfection, a little lower than the angelic
nature; and gold representing the divine nature, far above
angels, principalities and powers. As gold and copper are
much alike in their appearance, yet different in quality, so
the human nature is an image and likeness of the divine,
adapted to earthly conditions. It will be noticed that the
arrangement of

 The Camp, Court and Tabernacle

thus distinctly separated and differentiated into three general
divisions, represent three distinct classes blessed by the
atonement; and the two parts of the Tabernacle represent
two conditions of one of these classes. 

 " The Camp " represented the condition of the world of mankind
in sin, needing atonement and desiring it and its blessings,
however indistinctly it analyzes its cravings and
groanings. In the type the "Camp" was the nation of Israel
at large, which was separated from all holy things by
the curtain of white linen, representing to those within a
wall of faith, but to those without a wall of unbelief which
hindered their view of and access to the holy things within.
There was only one gateway to enter the "Holy Place" or
"Court"; the type thus testifying that there is but one way
of access to God--one "gate"--Jesus. "I am the way,...no
man cometh unto the Father but by me." "I am the door."
`John 14:6; 10:9`

 <19> 

 " The Court ," represented the condition of Justification, entered
through faith in Christ, the "gate." Into this "Court"
only Levites (typical of justified believers ) were allowed to
come, during the Atonement Day. These had access to the
"Brazen Altar" and to the "Laver," and did service in the
"Court," but had no right as merely Levites (believers) to
go into the Tabernacle; no, nor even to look into it. (`Num. 4:19,20`)
In the "Court" all things were of copper, to indicate
that the class admitted there were justified men . The
"Court" did not represent the condition of the spiritual
class during the Gospel age, though the priests, in sacrificing
and washing, used it also. 

 " The Tabernacle " building, with its two parts, represented
the two conditions of all who undergo a change of nature
from human to spiritual. The first apartment, the "Holy,"
represented the condition of all those who (as Levites--justified
believers) have consecrated their human nature to
death, that they might become partakers of the divine nature
(`2 Pet. 1:4`), having been begotten of the Spirit. Its second
apartment, the "Holy of Holies," beyond the "Veil"--
death--represented the condition of the faithful "overcomers"
who will attain to the divine nature. These, after
having completed their consecration in death, will be fully
changed, born from the dead in the First Resurrection, to the
divine nature and organism. No human being, be he ever so
full of faith, be he washed from every sin, and in God's sight
justified freely from all things and reckoned perfect, can
have any place or privilege in the spiritual things represented
in the interiors of the Tabernacle and Temple. He
cannot even look into spiritual things, in the sense of appreciating
them. But, during the Gospel age, such are "called"
to consecrate and sacrifice their human nature in God's
service, and to inherit instead the spiritual nature--as members
of the Body of Christ. "The natural man receiveth
not the things of the Spirit...neither can he know

 <20> 

them, because they are spiritually discerned." `1 Cor. 2:14` 

 The fact that all things in the Tabernacle were made of
 gold , representative of the divine nature, implies that it represented
the condition of such only as are called to the divine
nature. Only those of the Levites who were consecrated
to the work of sacrificing (the Priests) had access to the
Tabernacle; so only those of the household of faith who are
consecrated to sacrifice, even unto death, enter the divine
conditions represented in the Tabernacle. 

 The "Court," the justified human condition, is entered
by faith only; but while we must retain the faith that justifies,
we must do more, if we would experience a change of
nature and become "new creatures," "partakers of the
heavenly calling," to be "partakers of the divine nature."
Entering the "Holy," therefore, implies our full consecration
to the Lord's service, our begetting of the spirit
and our start in the race for the prize of the divine nature--
the terms of which are, faithfulness to our vow, crucifying
the justified flesh, presenting our human wills and bodies
living sacrifices to God; no longer to seek human pleasure,
honor, praise, etc., but to be dead to these and alive to the
heavenly impulses. Yet, into this condition, also, we still
come through Christ Jesus our Lord, who not only opened
for us the "Gate" of justification through faith in his blood,
but who also opened the "Door" (the first veil) into the
Tabernacle, "a new way of life," as spirit beings, through
and beyond the second veil, by the sacrifice of our justified
flesh. 

 Hence the two apartments of the Tabernacle, the
"Holy" and the "Most Holy," represented two phases or
stages of the new life to which we are begotten by the
holy Spirit. 

 The " Holy " represented the present condition of those begotten

 <21> 

of God through the Word of Truth. (`Jas. 1:18`)
These, as heavenly minded "new creatures," though still
"in the flesh," have their real (inner) life and walk with God
within the first veil of consecration, and beyond the intellectual
sight of the world and the unconsecrated believers.
These enjoy the inner light of the "golden candlestick,"
while others are in "outer darkness"; these eat of special
spiritual food, represented in the unleavened "bread of
presence," and offer incense at the golden altar, acceptable
through Christ Jesus. 

 The " Most Holy " represented the perfected condition of
those new creatures who, faithful unto death, gain the great
prize of our high calling through a share in the first resurrection.
(`Rev. 20:6`) Then, beyond both veils--the fleshly
mind and the fleshly body--they will possess glorious spiritual
bodies as well as spiritual minds. They will be like their
Leader and Forerunner beyond the veil, who, having entered
as our Redeemer, hath consecrated for us this new and
living way--or new way of life. `Heb. 10:20`; `1 John 3:2` 

 The spiritual-minded creature in the "Holy" by faith 
looks forward through the rent "Veil" into the "Most
Holy," catching glimpses of the glory, honor and immortality
beyond the flesh; which hope is as an anchor to the soul,
sure and steadfast, entering into that which is beyond the
veil. `Heb. 6:19; 10:20` 

 We see, then, that justification by faith, our first step toward
holiness, brings us into a condition of "peace with
God through our Lord Jesus Christ." (`Rom. 5:1`) When our
sins are forgiven, or reckonedly covered with Christ's righteousness,
we are a step nearer to God, but still human --in the
"Court." If we would attain the prize of the high calling
which is of God in Christ Jesus , and enter through the
"Holy" into the "Most Holy," we must follow

 <22> 

 In the Footsteps of Jesus,

our Leader and Head--"the High Priest of our profession "
[i.e., the High Priest of our order of priesthood] the "royal
priesthood." `Heb. 3:1`; `1 Peter 2:9`-- 

 (1) By faith in Christ's ransom-sacrifice, represented in
the Brazen Altar, we enter the "Gate" to the "Court"--the
veil of unbelief and sin is passed. This step is one which our
Lord Jesus never took, because not being of Adamic stock,
but holy, harmless, separate from sinners, he never was outside
the Court condition. 

 (2) Renouncing our justified human wills, and all our
human aspirations and hopes, we pass the first veil, or veil
of human-mindedness--counting the human will as dead;
henceforth consulting not it, but the will of God only. We
now find ourselves as "new creatures" in the "Holy" --in the
first of the "Heavenlies" or Holies (`Eph. 2:6`-- Diaglott ), and
begin to be enlightened by the "Golden Candlestick"
(God's Word) respecting spiritual things--"the deep things
of God," and to be refreshed and strengthened daily with
the truth, as represented in the "shew-bread," lawful for
only the Priests to eat. (`Matt. 12:4`) And thus enlightened
and strengthened, we should daily offer up sacrifices at the
"Golden Altar," acceptable to God through Jesus Christ--a
sweet perfume to our Father. `1 Pet. 2:5` 2 

 Thus all the saints, all the consecrated, are in a "heavenly"
or "holy" condition now --"seated [at rest and in communion]
with Christ in [the first of these] heavenly places,"
but not yet entered into the "holiest of all." No, another veil
must first be passed. As the passing of the preceding veil
represented the death of the HUMAN will , so the passing of the
second veil represented the death of the HUMAN body ; and

 <23> 

both are requisite to complete our " sacrifice ." Both fleshly
mind and fleshly body must be left behind before we can
enter into the "holiest of all"--perfected as partakers of the
divine nature and its spirit conditions: for flesh and blood
cannot inherit the Kingdom of God. (`1 Cor. 15:50`) Compare
`John 3:5,8,13`. 

 With these thoughts before our minds, respecting the
three conditions represented by these three places, "Camp,"
"Court" and "Tabernacle," in our next study we will note
particularly the three classes which come under these conditions;
viz., the Unbelieving World, Justified Believers
and the Saints or Consecrated Believers, typified respectively
by Israelites, Levites and the Priesthood.

 <24> 

 The Tabernacle

 "What lone mysterious abode is this, 

 Surrounded by a wall of spotless white; 

 By day an altar in the wilderness, 

 A silent watcher on the plain by night?

 "Who dwells within its consecrated veil, 

 To secular and alien feet denied? 

 Who answers when the priest, white-robed and pale, 

 Sprinkles the blood by 'bulls and goats' supplied?

 "Think you that He of name omnipotent 

 Required for naught these oft-repeated rites, 

 Or gratified mere vanity by scent 

 Of incense, broidered robes and altar-lights?

 "Nay, verily! The curious tapestries, 

 The vessels wrought of silver, copper, gold, 

 The ceremonious modes of sacrifice, 

 All 'better things' of Gospel times foretold.

 "And happy he whose reverent gaze discerns 

 What 'types and shadows' could but dimly trace: 

 His offering on the golden altar burns, 

 He solves the mysteries of the 'holy place.'

 "Upon the blood-stained mercy-seat he reads 

 Atonement sealed by him who went before, 

 And from the open heavens the Father speeds 

 The riches of his love and grace to outpour."