Tabernacle Shadows, Study II - Israelites, Levites And The Priesthood 

 <25> 

 STUDY II 
 ISRAELITES, LEVITES AND THE PRIESTHOOD 

 The Classes of Mankind Typified by Israelites, Levites and Priests-- 
 Anointing of the Priests--The Significance of the High Priest's "Garments 
 of Glory and Beauty," Typically Considered--The Abrahamic 
 Covenant, Law Covenant and New Covenant Foreshadowed.

 IT IS important that we get a clear idea, not only of the
structure of the Tabernacle, and of its furniture and the
typical significance of these, but also that we should know
something of the actors therein, and their significance as
types. 

 Israel is used in many instances to typify the Christian
Church. For instance, when they left Egyptian bondage,
they were a type of God's children who hear his call to come
out from the world and engage in his worship. 

 The wilderness journey represented the tedious pilgrimage
through which many pass, seeking the promised Canaan
rest--"Come unto me, and I will give you rest." As in
the type, so in reality, the promised Canaan of rest is not far
off, if God's children had faith enough to go up and at once
enter in by faith. God has made abundant provision for
them: yet they journey through the Wilderness of Sin, seeking
rest and finding none, because they lack faith in God's
promises. Some wander thus a long time; and some never
enter the Canaan rest because of unbelief. But while Israel,
according to the flesh, is thus and in other ways used to typify
Spiritual Israel, yet as we are now examining it, in its

 <26> 

relation to the Tabernacle, it is a totally different type.
Here Israel unquestionably typified the whole world of mankind .
The sin-offering, sacrifice, atonement, etc., made typical
for them (and them only), were typical of the "better
sacrifices" and atonement, made on behalf of the whole
world; for thus we read, "He is a propitiation for our sins,
and not for ours only, but also for the sins of the whole
world." `1 John 2:2; Heb. 9:23` 

 In a word, Israel , as well as the Tabernacle, Priests, Levites
and sacrifices, was a type. And what was there done in
symbol with and for Israel is, since the first advent of Christ,
being carried out on a higher plane, and on a larger scale,
the latter being the reality, of which that was the type or
shadow. 

 As Israel typified the world, so the tribe of Levites typified
the "household of faith," or all believers in Jesus and
his ransom. The Priesthood, one body under one chief or
High Priest, was typical of the "little flock," which, with its
"Head" or High Priest, is a royal priesthood, the members
of which, after the present time of sacrificing, are to be kings 
 and priests unto God, and to reign on the earth. (`Rev. 5:10`)
Thus viewed, we see Jesus the High Priest, not a priest of
the Aaronic order, which was but the type of a greater and
grander profession or order, the Head of the real priesthood
of which others were but figures. (`Heb. 3:1; 4:14`) The
Aaronic priesthood typified chiefly the humiliation and
sufferings of Christ, less his future glory--Melchisedec being
the type of the Christ as a kingly or royal priesthood. 

 But before the under-priests, the members of the Body of
Christ, the royal priesthood, will be united to their Head,
and begin their reign, they must " suffer with him ," sharing in
the antitypical sacrifices, as we shall shortly see. `2 Tim. 2:12` 

 The Apostle Peter shows who were typified by the Aaronic
priests, when, addressing those who were sanctified , he

 <27> 

says: " Ye are...an holy priesthood to offer up sacrifices acceptable
to God by Jesus Christ." " Ye are...a royal
priesthood." (`1 Pet. 2:5,9`) They are all ministers ( servants )
of the truth, though not all preachers and Doctors of Divinity:
and each must do his share at self-sacrifice ere he
will be accounted worthy to be a joint-heir with Christ.
Only to those who suffer with him is there a promise to
reign with him. `Rom. 8:17` 

 That the Head or Chief Priest of this priesthood, this
"little flock," is our Lord Jesus, is repeatedly mentioned by
the apostles. We give but one quotation: " Holy brethren
["the Royal Priesthood"], partakers of the heavenly calling,
consider the Apostle and High Priest of our profession [our order
of priests, to be], Christ Jesus." `Heb. 3:1` 

 As we now pass to the consideration of the inauguration
of the typical priesthood, we notice that the tribe of the Levites
(typical of all the justified believers) existed before the
priesthood was instituted. So in the antitype the " Royal 
 Priesthood " began with the anointing of Jesus, the High
Priest (at baptism, `Luke 3:22`; `Acts 10:38`); but believers,
 justified by faith in Christ, had lived long before that. For
instance, Abraham believed God, and was justified by his
faith. (`Rom. 4:2,3`) Though even the type had not yet come
in his day, Abraham, as a justified believer, was a member
of the "household of faith," typified by the Levites. But
none of the "Royal Priesthood" were selected until after the
Chief or High Priest of this order was first initiated and installed
in office. Since then the initiation and installment of
the under-priests has been the special work of this Christian
dispensation or Gospel Age. Thus the priests, now consecrating,
being installed and offering themselves as sacrifices,
are being prepared as God's instruments for the
royalty of the Kingdom, and thus for the blessing of all the
families of the earth.

 <28> 

 The Priesthood

 It will be well to notice that in every ceremony relating to
the ordination and work of the priesthood the chief priest
was first: and so in the antitypical priesthood, Jesus was the
 first --the Leader, Captain, Forerunner--teaching clearly
that none preceded him. Hence we see that none of the patriarchs
or prophets are of the "little flock," the "royal priesthood,"
otherwise called "the Bride," "the Lamb's Wife."
Though they will be greatly blessed as the Lord's servants,
their service will not be so grandly high as that of the
priests, nor their honor so great; nevertheless, as represented
in the Levites, their future work and honor will evidently
be great. 

 "The narrow way to life" (immortality) was not opened
up until Jesus came. He was the first to walk in it. He
"brought life and immortality to light ." (`2 Tim. 1:10`) And
though all faithful believers (Levites) will become possessors
of everlasting life, and the world (represented in the
"Camp of Israel") also, if they will accept it during the Millennial
age, yet only the priesthood, who overcome and
follow their Leader in the narrow way to life--sacrificing
human interests--thus seeking glory, honor and immortality
(`Rom. 2:7`), will ever become the possessors of that unlimited 
degree of life called immortality, originally possessed
only by Jehovah God, and by our Lord Jesus Christ since
his resurrection. See The Plan of the Ages , Chapters X and XI.

 The Anointing

 Under the Law, the anointing was the ceremony by which
the priests were installed in their service. They were
anointed to their office with a peculiar ointment, called the
"Holy Anointing Oil," used upon none but the priests, and

 <29> 

unlawful for any one else to have or to make. (`Exod. 30:25-33,38`)
This oil typifies the holy Spirit of adoption whereby
we, the real "royal priesthood," are sealed as sons of God.
Only the consecrated ones, the priests, are ever to be thus
anointed. 

 Aaron, the typical High Priest, represented Jesus, the
Head, and the Church as members of the Body--the great
antitypical High Priest. Being but a sinful man, like others,
Aaron had to be washed in order fitly to represent the purity
of the antitype, Jesus, who knew no sin, and his
Church, cleansed through his precious blood, and the
washing of water by the Word. `Eph. 5:26` 

 After being washed, Aaron was clothed with the holy
garments of "glory and beauty" (`Exod. 28`), and lastly the
anointing oil was poured on his head. (`Exod. 29:7`) Each article
of this glorious apparel was typical of qualities and
powers of the Great Deliverer--Head and Body--as Jehovah
discerned them, looking down into the future to the
time for "the manifestation of the Sons of God," and the
fulfilment in them of his promises.

 The High Priest in Garments of Typical 

 "Glory and Beauty"

 "And these are the garments--a breastplate and an
ephod, and an upper robe, and a broidered coat, a mitre
and a girdle." `Exod. 28:4` 

 The white linen "coat" represented the High Priest's purity,
while its embroidery showed the outgrowth of that
pure character in works of grace. 

 The "mitre," a strip of fine white linen (typical of righteousness),
worn around the forehead, to which the golden
plate, or "crown," was fastened with a blue lacer, showed
that the crown was righteously his.

 <30> 

 Upon the golden plate was inscribed "Holiness to the
Lord," thus proclaiming: This High Priest is entirely devoted
to the accomplishment of Jehovah's purposes. The
golden crown also proclaimed his royalty: Christ is to be "a
priest upon his throne"--"a priest forever after the order of
Melchisedec." `Zech. 6:13`; `Psa. 110:4`; `Heb. 7:17` 

 The "Linen Girdle" indicated a righteous servant:
linen--righteousness, girdle--servitude. 

 The "Upper Robe," of blue , represented his faithfulness.
The fringe of it was made of golden bells and pomegranates.
The pomegranate, being a choice fruit, showed that
the faithful performance of the Redeemer's work of sacrifice
had borne rich fruit--the redemption of the forfeited
life of the human race. The golden bells signified that when
our High Priest appears in glory and beauty, the fruit of
sacrificial work will be made manifest to all-- proclaimed to
all the world, as in the type the bells proclaimed it to all
Israel. This is indicated by the close proximity: the bells
drawing attention to the fruit. 

 The "Ephod" was made of cloth of purple, blue, scarlet,
white and gold threads, skillfully and beautifully interwoven.
It was of two parts, one hanging in front and the
other over the back. These two parts were fastened together
by two gold clasps which rested on the shoulders.
The ephod typified the two great covenants --the Abrahamic
Covenant represented by the front part, and the New Covenant
represented by the back, both of which are thus
shown to be dependent on our High Priest. Both of these covenants
are laid on him: if he fails to support them, fails to
carry out their terms and conditions, they fall to the
ground--fail. But, thank God, these covenants are united
and firmly clasped on him by the gold clasps (divine
power), as well as bound to him by the "curious girdle"--a
cord made of the same material as the ephod.

 <31> 

 THE HIGH PRIEST 

 IN ROBES TYPICAL OF CHRIST'S COMING GLORY

 <32> 

 <33> 

 This "Curious Girdle" seems to say, This is a servant , and
as this is the girdle of the Ephod it tells us that this one is
"The Messenger [servant] of the Covenant whom ye delight
in." `Mal. 3:1` 

 One part of the Ephod which represents the New Covenant
was guaranteed at Calvary: for was not our Lord's
death "the blood of the New Covenant" in which his members
share? `Matt. 26:28`; `1 Cor. 10:16` 

 The other part is incomplete as yet except as the heavenly
Father sees its fulfilment in the future: for the Abrahamic
Covenant promised the development of the Seed of
Abraham, through whom the New Covenant will bless all
the people, and this Seed is not yet complete. True, our
Lord Jesus is the Seed, yet God foresaw and has foretold
the larger seed, spiritual, which will include the Body, the
Church with the Head. (`Gal. 3:16,29`) And the Apostle
points out that an earthly seed of Abraham will also share
the work of blessing the world, yet spiritual Israel is the true
Seed: as it is written, "The son of the bond woman shall not
be heir with the son of the free woman." `Gal. 4:22-31` 

 Concerning the natural seed of Abraham, and as proving
that they will not be members of the Priest who will do the
blessing, the Apostle says: "As concerning the Gospel [the
spiritual part of the Covenant] they [the literal seed] are
enemies for your sakes; but as touching the election they
are [still] beloved for the fathers' sakes. For the gifts and
callings of God are not things he will repent of. For this is
 my Covenant TO THEM--There shall come out of Zion [the
spiritual Church] the Deliverer [this great High Priest, the
Servant of the Covenant--Jesus, the Head, and the "little
flock," his Body], and shall turn away ungodliness from
Jacob." They are to be first blessed by the spiritual or
true Seed and may later become associate laborers. `Rom. 11:26-29`

 <34> 

 So, then, after the Body of Christ completes the spiritual
"Seed," that additional promise to Abraham respecting an
earthly seed must have a fulfilment: the fleshly seed must
become great "as the sand by the sea shore," the heavenly
Seed being likened to "the stars of heaven." (`Gen. 22:17`)
They must first be turned to righteousness and truth; they
will then become an agency through which the spiritual
Seed will operate in the promised blessing of all mankind
with truth and grace. 

 The scarlet, blue, purple, etc., which composed the
ephod, indicated the conditions of the two covenants. The
 scarlet shows how God provides redemption from the
Adamic curse through the blood of the ransom. The white 
 linen indicates the restoration of man to his original purity.
The blue vouchsafes to him the aid, the ability, faithfully to
maintain his righteous character. The purple proclaims the
royal power of the Kingdom cooperating. All of these blessings
woven together are made sure by the divine power of
the anointed Priest, represented in the interwoven thread
of gold . Thus Jehovah has laid both of these covenants, as
they relate to men, upon one who is both mighty and willing
to execute these glorious covenanted blessings--"in due
time." 

 "The Breastplate of Judgment"--was placed on the front
of the ephod. It was suspended by a gold chain from the
clasps on the shoulder, and was fastened to the ephod by
the lacer, through golden rings--this fastening being so concealed
underneath that to the casual observer it might appear
to be a part of the ephod. (`Exod. 28:26-28`) This
breastplate beautifully represented the Law : It was not a
part of the Abrahamic Covenant (ephod) but "it was
added" to it. (`Gal. 3:19`) As the Israelite regarded them (not
seeing the hidden connection), the Covenant to Abraham
and "the law, which was 430 years after," were all one. But

 <35> 

Paul shows us that there are two seeds that God had in
mind, the spiritual and the natural, and that the Covenant
and the Law were distinct, "to the end that the promise
might be sure to all the seed; not to that only which is of the 
 Law , but to that also which is of the Faith ." `Rom. 4:16` 

 This Law emblem (the breastplate) was one of the most
beautiful of the High Priest's garments. It was made of the
same materials as the ephod. It had in it, set in gold, twelve
precious jewels, in which were engraved the names of the
twelve tribes. It was bound on his heart, indicating that it
was precious to him. As a "breastplate of righteousness" it
covered his heart. That which condemned all imperfection
was his pleasure--"I delight to do thy will, O my God: yea,
thy Law is within my heart." `Psa. 40:8` 

 This breastplate was two spans long and one span wide,
folded in the middle, i.e., a span long and a span wide
when doubled . The size, a span, indicated that the law of God
is the full measure of a perfect man's ability . The man Christ
Jesus, being perfect, was the only one who ever kept the perfect
Law of God inviolate, while those who compose the
"little flock," his Body, have his righteousness imputed to
them, and hence may truly say, "The righteousness of the
Law is fulfilled in us." 

 The fact that it was double and that the parts were of the
same size represented the letter and the spirit of the Law. The
front part contained the jewels, and was hung by the gold
chain to the gold clasps of the ephod. The underpart was
fastened to the ephod. This under half, tied to the ephod
(Covenant), seems to represent the Law in letter, as presented
to fleshly Israel. The front part seems to illustrate the
spirit of the Law fulfilled in us , "who walk not after the flesh,
but after the spirit." (`Rom. 8:4`) The two are really one when
rightly seen, yet the front part, only, bears the precious
jewels.

 <36> 

 Pure gold being a symbol of divine things, the dependence
of this part of the Law by a gold chain, from the gold clasps,
seems to teach that the Law is divine ; and we know, also,
that it is by Divine aid that we are enabled to walk--not after
the flesh but after the spirit. It is this phase of the Law
which bears the "jewels," set in gold, representative of the
true Israel, the Lord's "little flock." "They shall be mine,
saith the Lord of hosts, in that day when I make up my jewels."
(`Mal. 3:17`) Thus embedded in gold (the divine nature)
and upheld by the golden chain of Divine promises,
what wonder that "the righteousness of the law is fulfilled
in us!" `Rom. 8:1,4` 

 As Aaron stood there clothed in those beautiful robes so
typically significant, and was anointed with the holy oil, his
head represented Jesus, the Head of the Priesthood, while
his body represented the Church, complete in Christ. How
impressive and significant a type of the world's High Priest,
undefiled, and clothed with power and authority to fulfil
Jehovah's covenants!

 The Under-Priests--"The Body"

 We see the Body , or members of the High Priest, again individually
typified by the under-priests, who each wore a
"bonnet," covering his head, to indicate that he was not the
head of the Priesthood, but merely a member of the Body.
God gave Jesus "to be the Head over all things to the
Church, which is his Body." (`Eph. 1:22,23`) It is for this reason
that Paul insists that a woman's head should be covered
as indicating that she is not the head; the husband and
wife being typical of Jesus and his Bride--the Church of the
First-born. 

 The under-priests were robed in linen garments and wore
girdles. Their robes represented the righteousness of Jesus,
imputed to them, and their girdles represent them as servants 

 <37> 

of righteousness. The High Priest wore very similar
garments during the time of sacrificing (the Day of Atonement)
and put on the glorious garments after making
atonement.

 The Anointing of the Priest

 As Aaron had the holy oil poured upon his head, so our
Head, the Lord Jesus, was anointed with the antitypical
oil--the holy Spirit--when he was thirty years of age, on the
banks of Jordan, at the time of his consecration. There he
was "anointed with the oil of gladness above his fellows"--
as Head over all his joint-heirs. A measure of the spirit is given
to every member who thus consecrates; but Jehovah gave
"not the Spirit by measure unto him." (`John 3:34`) John
saw and bore record that our High Priest was thus
anointed, and Peter adds his testimony, "How God anointed 
Jesus of Nazareth with the holy Spirit and with power."
`John 1:32`; `Luke 4:1`; `Acts 10:38` 

 The anointing oil was poured only upon the head . The under-priests
were not anointed individually. 3 They were recognized
as members of the High Priest's body, and received
their anointing only in him as their head. Hence also the
antitypical priests are merely partakers of the spirit of
Christ, and only those who are in Christ Jesus are partakers
of the anointing which seals all those who will be recognized
as the heirs of God's promises, and joint-heirs with
Jesus Christ their Lord. `Eph. 1:13,14; 4:30` 

 The oil "ran down...to the skirts of his [the High
Priest's] garments" (`Psa. 133:2`), thus representing how all
the members of Christ's Body are to be partakers of the

 <38> 

same anointing after their Head. "The anointing which ye
have received of him abideth in you." (`1 John 2:27`) This oil
began to reach the Body on the day of Pentecost, and flowed
on down through this Gospel age, anointing all who are
truly baptized into Christ , constituting them, with their
Head, kings and priests unto God, to reign a thousand
years. `Rev. 20:6` 

 We thus see that Aaron, robed and anointed, represented
the entire Christ--the complete Seed of Abraham, in which
God is about to bless all the families of the earth. But let us
not forget that we have been viewing the Great Deliverer
from God's standpoint, and with him looking down to the
time of his manifestation--the dawn of the Millennial
Day--when all the members shall have come into the Body,
and when the "holy oil" shall have run down "to the skirts
of his garments," anointing every member. (`Lev. 10:7`)
Then he will begin the work of blessing mankind. For the
glorious reign of this Kingly Priest we constantly pray,
"Thy Kingdom come, thy will be done on earth."