Webbing the Night Away! 

 Webbing the Night Away! 
 (Beware the dark side of the Web...) 

Last updated : April 12, 2004 

Please 
 tell me 
 if you find any bad links. Thanks.

 Companies 
 Entertainment 
 Health 
 Investing 
 My Wild Friends 
 NASA Space Program 
 News 
 People 
 Radical 
 Reference 
 Tourism / Travel 
 Universities / Colleges 

 Companies 

 American Airlines 
 See flight schedules!

 Better Business Bureau 
 Check out the business before you get the business

 Digital Equipment Corporation (DEC) Home of PDP-11s, PDP-10s and Vaxen.
 It appears Compaq bought them out.

 Hello Direct Makers of fine headsets and other phone equipment

 Hewlett Packard Makers of fine printers and scanners

 Intel 
 We are Pentium of Borg. Accuracy is futile. 
 Speed is irrelevant. You will be approximated.

 International Business Machines (IBM) Big Blue!

 Microsoft Corporation See how Bill is doing...

 Sun Microsystems Wish I had a Sun at home...

 Top of Page 

 Entertainment 

 2013 
 Not sure what this page is about but the graphics
 are far out! Very, very graphics intense. You've been warned.

 $95,000 Check!? 
 Must read. Great story! He cashed a "non-negotiable" check for $95,000!

 Antique Vibrator Museum 
 Yes! Really!

 Blacklist of Internet Advertisers 
 Stop SPAM! List of advertisers who abuse email and usenet.
 Know your enemy.

 The 
 Borg 
 Must read "Microsoft takes on the Borg".

 Bud Ugly Page 
 Everything in HTML that is bad, ugly and abused is here.
 Good example of a BAD example! Quite hilarious.
-->

 Burrito Page Make a burrito and get your fortune told!

 Carnivorous Plant Database Where's the beef?

 Casino On-line gambling?!

 Chess: Kasparov vs. Deep Blue 1997 
 Historical match of the world chess champion against the best
 chess playing machine. Result: He blundered early 
 in the last game and lost the match! Unbelievable!

 Chinese Historical Society of Southern California 
 Current doings of a Chinese Society in Los Angeles.

 Cirque du Soleil The best in performance art!

 Contortionist Page 
 Benders! Interesting and painful! How do they do that?

 Dave Letterman's Top 10 List 

 Farmer's Market in Los Angeles 
 An L.A. landmark!

 Goat Page Learn everything about goats! This is for Boo!

 Project

 Gutenberg 
 Guten abend! Downzuloaden the complete works of Shakespeare,
 Sir Doyle, Burroughs, Dickens, Twain, Carroll, Baum, etc.
 See the square root of 2 to 5 million digits!

 Hong Kong 1997 
 The official page of the Hong Kong reunification
 with China. Very well done with beautiful graphics.
-->

 Insect Recipes 
 Carnivorous plants, eat your heart out!

 Japan's Prime Minister 
 Cum ba wa! Web server is actually located in his residence!

 Jello Page 
 I love jello, it's so lifelike!

 Kitty Porn 
 Simply hysterical.

 Medieval Texts! Many scans of original scribe handiworks!
-->

 There she is,

 Miss America ... Yes! The USA beauty pageant is on-line!

 Movie Guide for Los Angeles Movie capsules, reviews and videos.
 But sometimes I want to see the 
 movie showtimes. 

 Musicware Piano and music learning

 Nanotechnology Investigate the wee critters. By Richard Feynman.

 Night Stand Great parody of talk shows. Hysterical and very clever.

 Nobel Prize Yes, the Nobel Prize has a web page!

 On-Line Books More books!

 PBS Channel Public Broadcasting Service is on-line!

 Peanuts Cartoon I can relate to Woodstock.

 Pizza Hut Order some 'za! Delivered hot to your door!

 Playboy Magazine See how Hef is doing...
 Electric 
 Postcard Send your web friends a virtual postcard! Cool.

 Ragu Page! That's Italian! Very cool page.

 Red, pulsating sea squirt (564K) Quicktime movie. Hilarious.
-->

 Rolling Good Times 
 Extensive Gambling News!

 Sea World / Busch Gardens 
 Visit Shamu and get a Bud!

 Smithsonian Institute All KINDS of exhibits!
 Here is 

 an alias site

 too!

 Star Wars Page Beware the dark side of the Web!
 The 
 Tonight Show Lists their guest schedule

 TV Guide Listings See what's playing on local TV!

 TV Net Addresses and phone #s of all TV stations in US!

 Underground Used to be Rocktropolis. Don't know what it is now.
-->

 Vatican Gallery Be careful! LOTS of graphics!

 What's on Tonite? 
 Lists daily TV scheduled programming but has
 limited searching capability. 

 Why AOL Sucks Blow by blow description of AOL non-service.
 Required reading.

 Zen Page Can you understand it?

 Even More

 Zen Stories 
 This is a newer and better page. I love this stuff!

 Top of Page 

 Health 

 Center for Disease Control (CDC) Get travel warnings

 Outbreak Page including Ebola information.
 It could happen to you.

 Emergency Contraception This is not well known.

 Medscape Medical reports and news

 National Health Information Center Medical reports and news

 Investing 

 Dow Jones Business Information Services 

 Silicon Investor Keep track of high tech stocks! Cool.

 My Wild Friends 

Bob is a master at photography and a great entertainer.

He is both a dazzling magician and professional clown. No kidding!

Darrel

is a retired medical doctor. He leads a ragtime life like I do!
He thinks the Web is great and just put up a web page!

-->

Elizabeth

is very proud of her Scottish heritage. 
She is determined to learn how to play the bagpipes.
So to honor her I have a link to the 
 Gaelic page 
and the

Scottish Clans page.

Elizabeth's
tartan is not listed there for some reason.

Nancy

works in the office next to mine at 
 JPL. 
Her favorite cartoon character
is Taz, the Tasmanian devil. You know, the one who talks funny and spins around.
She is also a basketball fanatic and belongs to a 
 Toyota 
MR2 club!

-->

Kelli

is a major league clogger! You know, dancing with those wooden shoes.
She teaches clogging too and goes to all the clogger conventions.

 NASA Space Program 

 Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL/NASA) See the Space Program!

 Top of Page 

 News 

 Channel 2 News In Los Angeles. Way cool.

 China News Links to many resources
 of news about Hong Kong, Shanghai, China, Taiwan and Tibet.

 ClariNet News Your ISP has to be a subscriber to read this.

 C|Net News Updated every 5 minutes?!

 CNN News Read news from the Establishment!

 The Economist World news!

 L.A. Freeway Traffic Report (Slow link)
 The image maps download as slow as our rush hour traffic.
-->

 L.A. Times THE city newspaper.

 Mother Jones San Francisco bay area news

 Net Surfer Digest More Web news
 The 
 Network Observer More Web news

 The Tech Even more computer geekdom

 USA Today National News!

 US News Online Just like the magazine!

 UTNE Cafe Interesting Articles

 World of Interest News galore. Keep up with current affairs.

 Top of Page 

 People 

 Rodney Dangerfield Trying to get respect on the Web.
 I understand this is really his personal page!

 Ben Franklin You know, the guy on the half dollar :)

 Radical 

 Body Modification E-zine (BME) 
 Piercing, Scarring, Tatoos, etc. 
 Explicit descriptions with pictures for you sick puppies.

 Electronic Frontier Foundation For free speech on the Net!

 Fidel Castro for US President in 1996! Vote for the comrade!
-->

 FBI 10 Most Wanted List Something to aspire to!

 Freaks Different people-->

 Hare Krishnas You too can shave your head, carry a tambourine and 
 wear orange bedsheets.

 National UFO Reporting Center 
 Get the latest UFO sightings and news. 

 Phrack Magazine For hacker wannabes

 Tampere Anti-Gravity Report Partial anti-gravity created!
-->

 Waco, Another Story A different viewpoint. Interesting read.

 What to do When They Ask for Your Social Security Number

 Protect your right to privacy!

 Top of Page 

 Reference 

 Area Codes For those long distance calls! Go ahead, reach out!

 Association of Computing Machinery (ACM) The ultimate computer club

 AT&T 800 Directory Hey, why pay for the call?

 Auto Club of Southern California (AAA) 
 All kinds of information tidbits for drivers.

 Better Business Bureau 
 Check out the business before you get the business

 Blacklist of Internet Advertisers 
 Stop SPAM! List of advertisers who abuse email and usenet.
 Know your enemy.

 Carnivorous Plant Database Where's the beef?

 CD Information Center 
 Everything you wanted to know about the care and feeding of CD-ROMS.

 CD Care from Kodak 
 Everything you wanted to know about the care and feeding of CD-ROMS.

 Curt's High Speed Modem Page Get the latest news on
 high speed modems. Very extensive site.

 Send a 
 Fax Over the Net Very cool capability.

 Decode Base 64 MIME Files! 
 A quick and dirty but fast Perl script to decode
 those pesky Base 64 MIME attachments from email.

 Federal Web Locator Keep track of where the Feds are lurking...

 Gutenberg List of Computer Science Works 
 ETexts related to CS! Various introductions to the Net.

 Government Information Resources @caltech.edu.

 Human Languages For you polyglots.

 Infoseek Web search engine

 International Free Nets Find the closest Net site near you!
 I am usually interested in

 LA's freenet.

 ISDN Page (Dan Kegel) All you ever wanted to know about ISDN

 Java Documentation New Web language!
 The List of Lists. You can now

 search the List of Lists

 for that special mailing list.

 L.A. Freeway Traffic Report (Slow link)
 The image maps download as slow as our rush hour traffic.

 Library of Congress (LOC) The Mother of all card catalogs!

 Medieval Texts! Many scans of original scribe handiworks!

 The 
 Ultimate Band List Musical bands galore! Can you sing?
 The Internet 
 Movie Database 
 Look up Marilyn, Grace, Bogie, Astaire, etc.

 Movie Guide for Los Angeles Movie capsules, reviews and videos.
 But sometimes I want to see the 
 movie showtimes. 

 Paleontology Museum 
 Very cool web museum! Lots of information and pictures!

 Pasadena Public Library 
 The main library near me!

 PERL Manual 
 A C-like language

 PhotoShop Tips (Kai Krause's) Good graphics advice

 PC Lube & Tune Good description of TCP/IP

 Quality Resources Links to quality management and control info.
 The 
 Sign Language Page 
 Communicate elegantly. There's too much yelling in this world!

 SimTel Page! All kinds of shareware/freeware!

 Smithsonian Institute All KINDS of exhibits!
 Here is 

 an alias site

 too!

 Solar Cooking See the latest in solar ovens!

 US Postal Service Get current postage rates

 US Senate Read about the history of the Senate and 
 see Senator web pages!
 Weather Services

 US National (Lighthouse), 

 Intellicast Weather

 and

 Weather Underground

 But sometimes I want to see the

 L.A. Weather forecast (oes). 
 Here's another

 L.A. Weather forecast (Intellicast). 

 WebCrawler Search through the Web!

 West's Legal Directory Get law firm info in the US and Canada!

 What Is The Time? 
 From the atomic clock at the US Naval Observatory!

 Windoze Clients List of web browsers for MS-Windoze
-->

 Yahoo! Ride 'em cowboy! 

 Zip Codes (USA) Postal bureaucracy stuff
-->

 Top of Page 

 Tourism / Travel 

 The 
 Amish in Pennsylvania. Read about them! 
 Has a description of their wedding rituals.

 Cancun, Mexico See the beaches and the Mayan ruins!

 CityLink Tourist info on cities all over the USA!

 CityNet Tourist info on cities all over the USA!

 Las Vegas Online (KLAS-TV) This is how the world will end!

 City of

 Los Angeles 
 Read the latest on earthquakes, floods, fires, riots, etc...
 all from one city!

 Mayan Mysteries More stuff about Mayan culture.
 Some info is incorrect but a cool site nevertheless.

 Smithsonian Institute All KINDS of exhibits!
 Here is 

 an alias site

 too!

 Vatican Gallery Be careful! LOTS of graphics!

 Venice Beach Southern California as it TRULY IS!

 Top of Page 

 Universities / Colleges 

 California Institute of Technology (Caltech) Took classes here!

 Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) That East Coast college

 University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) That other college.

 University of Southern California (USC) The conquest goes on...

 Top of Page 

 Al's Wild Web Page 

 Write to me 

Copyright 1995-2004 Al Wong, Los Angeles, California, USA

All rights reserved.

&#32;