Complete summary of The Glass Key 

 Complete summary of The Glass Key (1942) 

 Politician/thug Paul Madvig (Brian Donlevy) is used to thinking with
his fists; his right hand man Ed Beaumont (Alan Ladd) is used to thinking
with his head. Both are best friends. Madvig throws his considerable
political weight behind gubernatorial candidate Ralph Henry in order to
win daughter Janet Henry's (Veronica Lake) affections. Paul also makes an
enemy of a former ally, gangster Nick Varna, who has many of Janet's
brother Taylor's gambling debts. Janet acts nicely towards Paul so that
Paul will support her father but she is more interested in Ed. Ed is also
attracted to her but backs off for Paul's sake. Ed and Paul disapprove of
Paul's younger sister Opal (Bonita Grainville) dating Taylor (Richard
Denning) because Taylor gambles. Outside the Henry home, Ed finds Taylor
dead. 

 Ed and Paul fight over Janet. Ed goes to Nick Varna and implies he will
reveal Paul's secrets, then changes his mind. Varna's thugs, Rusty and the
sadistic, perverse Jeff (William Bendix), beat Ed savagely. Varna brings
in the editor of the Observer newspaper, Matthews, to record Ed's
confession of Paul's secrets, but Ed escapes and is hospitalised. In the
hospital, Paul claims to Ed that he killed Taylor, but Ed thinks Paul is
covering up for the real killer. He tracks Opal to Matthews' country
residence and finds Opal, the Matthewses, Nick and his henchmen there.
Nick is forcing Matthews to publish Opal's suspicions about Paul murdering
Taylor. Matthews' trophy wife kisses Ed and Matthews commits suicide, but
not before making his will. Ed destroys the will and gets Paul to get the
estate administrator to kill the story about Opal's suspicions. 

 Ed searches for Nick but is cornered by Jeff. Jeff takes Ed up to his
room and hints that Nick had something to do with Taylor's murder. Nick
enters, fights with Jeff, and Jeff strangles him to death. Ed leads the
police to the Henry residence to arrest the prime suspect--Janet. To save
his daughter, Ralph confesses to accidentally killing Taylor after an
argument. Paul had helped Ralph move the body. Ed prepares to move to New
York. Janet, engaged to Paul, asks Ed to take her away. Paul gives his
blessing to the couple but wants Janet's engagement ring back. 

 Dark City home | film
titles | directors 
| book
titles and writers 
| feature | linx 
| web authors 

 (&copy; NOIR, 2003)