Research Consulting Group&#174;, 1st Details 

 Doctor 

If you are among those who believe that everyone called "doctor" wears a
stethoscope, hold on to your eyebrows! The word, "doctor," has nothing
to do with physicians, health, medicine, surgery, healing people, or
fixing things, not even today on a medical school diploma. "Doctor"
is a Latin word meaning, "teacher." (Makes sense now, doesn't it?)
This is why the title on a U.S. medical school diploma reads "Doctor
of Medicine" instead of just "Doctor." People who started all those
businesses named "Lawn Doctor," "Plumbing Doctor" and such, apparently,
never thought to find out just what doctor means before using the word
in their business titles (Lawn Teacher?).

 So, how did people come to think that doctor equals physician? One
can guess that this popular misusage resulted from the amount of contact
"ordinary" people have had with someone having "Doctor" as their title:
people have been more likely to meet a physician during their lifetimes
than someone, say, with a Ph.D. in electrical engineering. People in the
media, in ignorance or purposefully, perpetuate this misusage. So do many
physicians and, even, non-M.D. people having earned Ph.D.s or other
doctorates. Legitimate dictionaries list multiple "definitions" of
doctor. But beside original definitions, legitimate dictionaries also
commonly include misusages of words as they come into fashion and stay a
while.

 We're not sure why the U.S. medical school diploma was titled "Doctor
of Medicine" rather than "Physician" or "Practitioner of Medicine,"
however, a possibility: a long-ago application of the word, "teacher," was
in addressing persons held in high regard in their vocations, therefore,
the regard presumed of persons gaining the physician's diploma. One
example of the regard application of "teacher" can be found in a Christian
bible's new testament, wherein Jesus is occasionally referred to as
"teacher." The use of "doctor" is obvious in the Latin-language bible
version, corresponding to "teacher" in English translations. One English
translation, however, uses "master" instead of "teacher."

 Your Comments 

 Return to RCG's Home Page 

&copy; Copyright 2000-2002, Research Consulting Group&#174;. All rights reserved. Copies of this presentation's text, in whole or in part, may not be further distributed in any form without the explicit permission, in hardcopy, of the owners of the Research Consulting Group. This presentation is subject to change at any time.