Cathy Jean, Blues Singer 

Questions from Lea Gilmore, renown blues journalist and musician,
February, 2000. Unfortunately, we don't know where the final, edited version
of this interview was published.

1. Lea: 
When/where were you born? 
CJ: 
I was born in Fort Meade, Maryland, on June 21st--the cusp of Gemini and
Cancer.

2. Lea: 
Do you come from a musical family? 
CJ: 
My father plays piano and guitar. From when I was 7 to about 10 years old,
my father, sister, and I would go camping with an Al-Anon group. On some
Saturday nights the group would build a big bonfire and my sister and I
would sing while my father played guitar. We always had a good response. I
remember doing Beatles tunes and folkie stuff. My mother has always sung
along with every record she has ever heard. She has a strong voice and
likes country music. From what I've been told, my mother's father, who
died from an aneurysm when he was 37, sang jazz in clubs in New York where
my family is from. And my son is musically talented.

3. Lea: 
When did you first recognize that you wanted to be a singer? 
CJ: 
I knew I wanted to be a singer when I was 5 years old. I have clear
memories of being pre-school/kindergarten age and going into the basement
of our house alone to play 45's and albums. I'd sing and dance and pretend
that I was being filmed and performing a live show.

4. Lea: 
Why do you sing the blues? 
CJ: 
Because I have the blues. Because life is tough and life ain't fair and I
don't understand why God does the things he/she does. Because the blues
eases me and it upsets me. Because the blues is truth and it makes me feel
at home. Because the blues makes you listen and sometimes makes you get
off your ass and dance.

5. Lea: 
What experiences in your life make you a "good" blues singer? 
CJ: 
Every one--I don't think you have enough room in this interview for me to
even begin to tell you the rough life experiences I've had! I'd wind up
depressing you and amazing you! But I've learned from my experiences and I
am a stronger woman because of them. I've had a rather messed up
existence. Haven't we all? 
I do want to mention one thing: all this crap about how I'm supposed to be
so damned attractive. What people don't know is that I was born with, and
still have, strabismus and amblyopia. In other words, my eyes cross. They
always have. I see out of only one eye at a time. I have double and,
sometimes, quadruple vision. I have no peripheral vision. I get headaches.
I see floaters and odd color patterns. Every day I get mucus build-ups in
my eyes. I know this sounds petty but, unless you have this eye disorder,
you don't understand how much it can mess with your every day life and
self esteem. It's difficult living a life where you can't look directly at
anyone, in photos or into someone eyes, because you know your eye is
turning in or out. Crossed eyes freak people out. Movies and television
present people with crossed eyes as having low intellect and as a joke.
This is one of the largest forms of ignorance I have ever witnessed and it
pisses me off. We are not stupid and eye diseases certainly are not funny.
I've had two major eye surgeries so far to fix my eyes. I am currently
trying to save up money so I can afford the time off I'll need to recover
from my 3rd surgery.

6. Lea: 
In your opinion, how are women perceived in the blues community? Are they 
offered the same respect as male performers? 
CJ: 
Ha! Women in any field are never offered the same "respect" as men or
thought of as equal. Women may get the illusion that they are thought of
as equal, but men and women are two totally different creatures. Most men
think with the lower half of their bodies while most women think with the
upper half of their bodies. Women need to remember that. I think that both
sexes should put themselves in the other sex's mindset. We might all
understand each other a little bit better then. 
I wish more women listened to blues. From what I have seen, most of the
blues audiences are men. (Don't get me wrong, I like men!) This is kind of
sad because, being a female blues performer, I feel that another female
would be able to grasp the full meaning of what I am doing better than a
male. Sorry to say, but some men can be a little shallow--ya know, "Feed
me, f*ck me, let me sleep." Occasionally, some women want a little bit
more than that.

7. Lea: 
Explain your "sexy" image. How has it been received? 
CJ: 
Oh, please. Every woman is sexy.

8. Lea: 
What was it like recording your first CD (and subsequent CD's)? Any 
crazy studio stories? 
CJ: 
Ho-ho--recording the first CD was horrific. At that time, I was in a
terrible "long term" relationship with a guitar player. (Yes, I know, I no
longer date musicians.) We never did gig together, yet, he insisted that I
use him as the guitar player on my CD and not use my regular guitar
player. The first CD was a live recording on a shoestring budget of my
money, and I had the musicians and studio booked to be paid no matter
what. I always pay my musicians well. My guitar player "boyfriend" did the
first day session, then headed three hours out of town for his own gig.
The morning of the second session day, I got a call from my guitar player
"boyfriend." He told me that he's not coming back to do the studio gig,
he's on a booze and coke binge with his buddies, and for me to take my
studio sessions and stick them up my ass. What a rotten thing to do. I
panicked. I had all of about an hour to find another a guitar player.
Fortunately, I was able to get a hold of my regular guitar player. He went
way out of his way by calling out on short notice from his important day
job to come and finish my sessions. I thanked him a lot! 
I feel that I should mention how I acquired my current and most favorite
guitar player to work with, Keith Stafford. Not too long after my first CD
was cut, I booked 3 weeks of all-across-the-USA road gigs. The "boyfriend"
I had said he wanted to "make it up to me" for all the many horrible
things he had done to me, such as leaving me short notice without a guitar
player for my CD in the studio. Once again, he insisted on being my guitar
player for the 3 weeks of road gigs I booked. He said that we could
re-kindle our relationship on the road and that it would be a great time
for us. Well, help me Lord, I was stupid and agreed to use the "boyfriend"
instead of my regular guitar player so the "boyfriend" could "make it up
to me." The night before we left for the road gigs, I was helping my
"boyfriend" load out from his gig at 2:30 AM. He, for whatever his insane
f*cked up reason was, out of the blue, informed me that he had changed his
mind and he was not going on the road with me. What a piece of sh*t!
Again, I was left with only one day to find a guitar player--a guitar
player not just to play one day with me, but 3 weeks on the road! Aah!! I
desperately called around. Finally, a musician I know suggested Keith
Stafford, a guitar player I had never met or even heard of. As lucky as it
may seem, I called Keith and he said yes to the gigs. Keith and his wife
didn't know me at all. I mean, I could have been a crazed, drugged out
serial killer but Keith still dropped everything and went on the road with
me. Again, I am very grateful to Keith and his wife for helping me! 
The torture that my guitar player, now EX-"boyfriend," put me through
didn't end for years even though the relationship is over for years. I
was ready to start recording my second CD, "I Want," and booked time and
musicians into a studio, two hours away, that I thought was reputable.
Since the last CD, my ex-boyfriend inherited millions of dollars. Turned
out he had an inheritance coming to him all along and never told anyone.
It also turned out that, by chance, my ex-boyfriend booked a huge amount
of time at the same studio that I was planning to record my second CD in.
Basically, the ex-boyfriend was spending much more money than I was at the
new studio. My van broke down leaving my gig the night prior to the
beginning session of (what I thought would be the start of) recording "I
Want." Frantically, in the middle of the night, I had to rent an
expensive van so I could get to the new studio session. Needless to say,
you can guess what happened when I got to the new studio session. I was
told by the "well-respected" owner/producer that, after only knowing me
for 10 seconds, he couldn't work with me, that we wouldn't get along, and
that basically I could take my second CD ideas and stick them up my ass
and get out. Once again, I was devastated. I felt there was no studio left
for me to go to where my ex-boyfriend wouldn't try to ruin life for me. Keith
Stafford suggested the one studio left that I knew my pockets couldn't
afford. But I'll be damned if the worst case scenarios sometimes don't
turn into good things. I was basically chased to Bias Recording studio,
and even though I have to work my ass off every damned day to make the dough
to record there, it's one of the best things that has ever happened to
me! They are a great staff of people and do excellent work. Bob Dawson is
one of the most talented and funniest engineers you could ask for. I had a
blast recording "I Want" there. I am currently 3/4 way through recording
my next CD at Bias, which will be released this spring, 2000. 
Hey Lea--I think I just gave you a good answer to question #5!

9. Lea: 
What are your professional goals? 
CJ: 
To keep writing, recording, and playing music. And, hopefully, to make a 
decent living for my family doing it.

10. Lea: 
How do you want to be remembered? 
CJ: 
As a good mother and a blues lover.