Different kinds of intelligence 

 Different Kinds of Intelligence 

 from a letter to me by Grady Towers dated March
23, 1999 
Used with permission from the author 

 You are no doubt aware that psychometricians
acknowledge two different kinds of intelligence: fluid and
crystallized. What may surprise you to learn is that this is a
very old formulation, and the most modern factor analytic
studies, by the very best factor analysts, recognize nine
different kinds of general mental ability (See Intellectual
Development , edited by Robert J. Sternberg and Cynthia A.
Berg, chapter 3). Here's what they are: 

 Fluid reasoning (G f ),
measured in tasks requiring inductive, deductive, conjunctive,
and disjunctive reasoning to arrive at understanding relations
among stimuli, comprehend implications, and draw inferences. 

 Acculturation Knowledge (G c ),
measured in tasks indicating breadth and depth of the knowledge
of the dominant culture. 

 Quantitative Knowledge (G q ),
measured in tasks requiring understanding and application of the
concepts and skills of mathematics. 

 Short-term apprehension-retrieval 
(G sm ), also called short-term memory, measured in a
variety of tasks that mainly require one to maintain awareness
of, and be able to recall, elements of immediate stimulation --
i.e., events of the last minute or so. 

 Fluency of retrieval from long-term
storage (G lr ), also called long-term memory,
measured in tasks that indicate consolidation for storage and
mainly require retrieval, through association, of information
stored minutes, hours, weeks, and years before. 

 Visual processing (G v ),
measured in tasks involving visual closure and constancy, and
fluency in "image-ing" the way objects appear in space
as they are rotated and flip-flopped in various ways. 

 Auditory processing (G a ),
measured in tasks that involve perception of sound patterns under
distraction or distortion, maintaining awareness of order and
rhythm among sounds, and comprehending elements of groups of
sounds, such as chords and the relations among such groups. 

 Processing speed (G s ),
although involved in almost all intellectual tasks (Hertzog,
1989), measured most purely in rapid scanning and responding in
intellectually simple tasks (in which almost all people would get
the right answer if the task were not highly speeded). 

 Correct decision speed (CDS),
measured in quickness in providing answers in tasks that require
one to think. 

 My own factor analytic studies of the super-high
IQ community have never been as complete as I could have wanted.
Sample sizes were too small, and the variety of items was too
restricted. Nevertheless, I have some informed opinions. My guess
is that ThinkFast is a test of CDS. I believe the LAIT to be a
nearly pure measure of fluid g (G f ), the
verbal portion of the Mega Test to be mostly a measure of
acculturation knowledge (G c ), and the non-verbal
subsection to be a mixture of fluid intelligence (G f )
and quantitative knowledge (G q ). But the Mobius Test,
which was making the rounds a few years ago, is the most
interesting of all. My best guess is that it is mostly a test of
fluency of retrieval from long term storage (G lr ), the
first time I've ever seen this factor on a test in such a pure
form. 

 Each of these mental abilities peak at different
ages. The average scores for G f , G sm , G s ,
and CDS decrease steadily from the early twenties onward. The
averages for G v and G a increase into the
late thirties and early forties then begin to decline. The
averages for G c , G lr , and G q 
increase into the sixties before showing a decline. 

 In other words, whichever kind of intelligence a
high IQ society favors will influence the average age of its
membership. Perhaps a mixture would be wise. 

 Return to the Uncommonly
Difficult I.Q. Tests page.