IQ and real world success 

 IQ and real world success 

 from a letter to me by Grady Towers dated March
12, 1999 
Used with permission from the author 

 Have you never wondered why the world is not
ruled by those with two hundred plus IQs? If IQs were of such
overwhelming importance, the world should be, shouldn't it? 

 Well, there's a mathematical explanation why it
isn't. The following Gedankenexperiment will show you
that reason. 

 Imagine that you have a highly reliable IQ test
that is normally distributed and correlates positively with some
real world criterion that is also normally distributed. If you
plot all the data pairs from these measurements, you should
obtain a scatter diagram that looks like this ellipse. 

 One can deduce three things from this diagram: 

 1. The very highest level of real world
accomplishment is not made by those with the very highest level
IQs. 

 2. Those with the very highest level IQs tend to
have real world achievements just below the very highest levels. 

 3. Of those in the IQ range most conducive to
real world achievement, most do not achieve at the highest level,
or even reach that of the very highest IQs. IQ scores tell you
what league you're playing in, not how well you can bat. 

 This is an idealization, of course. It departs
from reality in two ways. In the first place, the correlation
between IQ scores and most criteria, as used in this
illustration, is not as high as that shown. In reality, the
ellipse would be much fatter and the disparity between test and
accomplishment would be correspondingly more. And in the second
place, real world accomplishments are almost always positively
skewed, so that a two horned ellipse would be a better
representation -- what I personally call a planarian scatter
diagram, for obvious reasons. 

 The real question, naturally, is what are the
boundaries for real world success? It turns out that there are
actually two: one for practical real world achievements, and a
second for theoretical accomplishments. The first consists in an
IQ span of about 30 points between 120 IQ and 150 IQ (see
Hollingworth). The second is also comprised of a 30 point span
from about 150 IQ to 180 (see Roe). IQ scores measure the ability
to carry out symbolic thinking. Those in the practical range use
symbolic systems to solve problems; those in the theoretical
range invent and modify the symbolic systems themselves. The
business of the mathematician is to prove theorems, not solve
problems. Much the same could be said of the scientist, poet or
philosopher. 

 There are exceptions to this rule, to be sure:
Bobby Fischer has an IQ over 180, and Truman Capote had one over
two hundred. But in the main, this generalization is a good one. 

 There's one last corollary to the foregoing. It's
a well known fact that the standard deviation for IQ is somewhat
greater among men than among women. This suggests that
proportionally more women should fall into the practical range
than they do into the theoretical one. Could this be why most
mathematicians are men, and so many stockholders are women? 

 Return to the Uncommonly
Difficult I.Q. Tests page.