On using multiple tests for high IQ society admissions 

 On using multiple tests for high
IQ society admissions 

 from a letter to me by Grady Towers 
Used with permission from the author 

 Most high IQ societies advertise that they select
their members at a certain percentile level from the general
population: the top two percent for Mensa, the top one percent
for Intertel, the top one-tenth of one percent for ISPE and
Triple Nine, and so on. None of which is true. It could only be
true if they used one and only one test for selection purposes,
or if they used tests that correlated perfectly with one another.
In fact, two or more tests are almost always used. As the best
conventional IQ tests correlate about 0.7 with each other, this
leads to some interesting statistical consequences. 

 Assume that there is a high IQ society that uses
two, and only two, IQ tests for selection. Assume both tests are
highly reliable, properly scaled, and correlate 0.7. Assume the
society wants to select out the top two percent from the general
population. Here's what they would get: 

 1.8 percent would pass one test but not the
 other. 
 3.83 percent would pass one test or the other (or both) 
 0.2 percent would pass both tests. 

 These are percentages for the general population.
For those who have already passed one test, only 10.27 percent
will pass the second. 

 These numbers usually come as a surprise to most
people. Because a society that gives two tests and allows
admission if a candidate passes either one is actually selecting
the top 3.83 percent, this is equivalent to giving a test with
super-high reliability and selecting at an IQ of 129 or above,
rather than 132 (on a 16 sigma scale). 

 Had the society instead required the candidate to
pass both tests at the two percent level, it would have been
equivalent to using a super-high reliability test to select at
146 IQ. 

 This may be surprising at first, but it's not too
difficult to believe after you've studied the scattergram.
However, there's a consequence to this that is hard to believe,
one that someone in your position ought to know about. 

 This time we again have two tests that correlate
0.7, but we now have two societies. One society selects at the
two percent level, and the other at the one-tenth-of-one percent
level. Here's what we get this time: 

 For the general population 

 2.11 percent would pass one test or the other
 or both 
 0.014 percent would pass both tests (roughly one in seven
 thousand) 

 For those that passed one test at the two percent
level, only 0.69 percent would pass at the one-in-a-thousand
level. That's not much of a surprise. But here's the kicker, the
thing you should know. Only 13.48 percent of those who passed at
the one-in-a-thousand level would pass at the two percent level. 

 Most members of very high level IQ societies ( > 
150) are or have been Mensans already. They belong in the
category of individuals who have passed both tests. But people
who take a test like the Mega Test in a public magazine like Omni ,
and equal or exceed 150, may not be able to get into Mensa. About
86 percent would fail on a second test at the two percent level. 

 I find this astonishing. By extrapolation, it
means that even some members of the Mega Society couldn't get
into Mensa on a second test. 

 References: 

 "Graphs for bivariate normal
probabilities" Annals of Mathematical Statistics 31 
(1960), 619-624. 

 Return to the Uncommonly
Difficult I.Q. Tests page.