C.G. Jung Society, Seattle: Fall 2005 Newsletter 

 C.G. Jung Society, Seattle 

 Lynn Davis Fox, M.Ed. 

 Whence God? 
 Seminar: Saturdays, September 24, October 1, October 8, October 22, October 29, November 5, 
 10 a.m. to noon 
 Good Shepherd Center, Room 221, 4649 Sunnyside Ave. N., Seattle 

 $60 
 Advanced registration required. 
 A six-week seminar investigating C.G. Jung&rsquo;s &ldquo;new godimage&rdquo;, 
 his myth for Western civilization in this aeon.
 Using Lawrence Jaffe&rsquo;s Celebrating Soul: Preparing for 
 the New Religion as a guide through lecture and discussion, we 
 will explore the past, present and future of religious experience
 of our culture. The seminar is especially designed for those whose former 
 religion is no longer viable for them. 
 &ldquo;If enough individuals have had that transformative experience [ coniunctio ] 
 within themselves, then they become seeds sown in the collective psyche which
 can promote the unification of the collective psyche as a whole.
 [H]ow many will it take?...I think each individual ought to live his life out of the
 hypothesis that maybe one would do.&rdquo; &ndash; Edward F. Edinger 

 The seminar will meet for six Saturdays for two hours, 10 a.m. to noon, at the Good Shepherd Center, 
 Room 221. 
 Advance registration is required, accompanied by a fee of $60.00, payable to the 
 C.G. Jung Society of Seattle, 4649 Sunnyside Ave. N., Room 222, Seattle, WA
 98103. Please use the provided preregistration form and include the correct amount. 
 You can use the link provided to order the required text from Amazon.com. You can also order the text through the Society by contacting Bunny 
 Brown, Librarian at (206) 547-3956. 
 For further inquires, you can reach Lynn Fox at (425) 453-9384. 
 Lynn Davis Fox, M.Ed. , has been a counselor and educator since 1977, 
 specializing in addiction treatment and mid-life challenges. More recently, she 
 pursued an in-depth study of C.G. Jung&rsquo;s works, focusing especially on his 
 writings concerning religion. This has inspired her to move beyond her rejection
 of past religious dogma to a new spiritual opportunity where consciousness is the
 key to discovery. She is eager to share this knowledge with others who are
 seeking new and vital venues for religious experience. 

 C.G. Jung Society, Seattle home page 
 Updated: 12 September, 2005 

 webmaster@jungseattle.org