Bass For Beginners | My Favorite Things 

 Riff-O-Matic 
 Guitar 
 Strings - 60% off 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Ask The Expert 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , Bass For Beginners , My Favorite Things 

 My Favorite Things 

 Bass for Beginners # 12 
 Published December 20, 2001 
 By Dan Lasley 

 Print this page 
 Email to a Friend 

 Bookmark 
 this page 

 This month's topic is entitled "The Joy of Guitar", 
 which is wonderful, because music brings lots of joy to lots 
 of people. David Hodge's original title was "My Favorite 
 Things", and since I already had an idea for that topic, 
 I have appropriated the title. 
 The following snippets are items that I have come to enjoy 
 when playing or listening to music: 

 "Tutti" riffs, where as many instruments as 
 possible play the same riff, either the same notes, or in 
 tracking harmony. Stevie Wonder's "Superstition" 
 is a great example of this, with the bass tracking along. 
 More recently, the riff in the Monkee's tune "I'm a 
 Believer" is performed that way in the movie "Shrek". 
 The "machine gun" snare in Elton John's "Saturday 
 Night's Alright for Fighting". 
 Dynamic changes in a song. The wilder the better. From 
 "Shout" (Otis Day and the Nights) to "Bring 
 Me Some Water" (Melissa Etheridge), dynamics can really 
 spice up a song. 
 David's attempts to get me to laugh and lose my place. 
 I get a real sense of accomplishment if I can finish the 
 song without succumbing to giggles. David "wins" 
 if I drop a note. 
 Playing with a full brass section. I finally got to do 
 this last 
 Spring , and it was better than I had imagined. Listening 
 to them punch out the chorus riff in "Get Ready", 
 with the saxes building tension and the trumpet pealing 
 out on top was just fantastic. 
 Santana's "Europa". If there is a more sensual 
 song out there, I don't know it. 
 Harmonies. I still remember a time in 1984 when 6 of us 
 were sitting in our living room singing folk-rock songs, 
 and 4 voices, a flute, 2 guitars, and my bass all hit the 
 perfectly balanced note, resulting in a "chord" 
 that no one wanted to end. The song is supposed to have 
 another reprise chorus, but we stopped on that sustained 
 magic. Now if I could just remember the name of the song! 
 Clever lyrics. From Billy Joel to Aerosmith to Melissa 
 Etheridge, a well-turned phrase is lots of fun. The Kinks 
 probably wrote the best of all, including "Lola", 
 "Victoria", and "Superman". 
 Rewriting lyrics. David and Laura are very good at re-writing 
 lyrics. David's rewrite of the Beatles' "Don't Let 
 Me Down" is hilarious: "Nobody ever loves me like 
 I love me&#133;" Trust me, it works for the entire 
 song! 
 Playing with Laura. We don't get to do it often, but sometimes 
 we hit that "magical moment" in a song, and it's 
 wonderful. 
 Playing 
 with our kids and their friends . They are so trusting 
 and eager to learn, and they are very good musicians as 
 well. 
 Learning a new song, and coming up with the "perfect" 
 bass line, or at least one that fits well. 
 Dragging an old song out of the closet after many years. 
 David, Laura and I recently played Fleetwood Mac's "Rhiannon" 
 for the first time in almost 20 years, and we were all a 
 bit surprised to discover we remembered it. 
 Finding a new "tweak" to the bass line for a 
 song that I've played for years. I recently found one for 
 David's "Winter", and it was good. 
 Playing fretless. My mentor was right: "Fretless 
 and Free!". I don't think I can ever play "Moondance" 
 fretted again. 
 Playing an old song a new way. I've played several mid-tempo 
 rock songs as reggae, but my favorite was playing "Tush" 
 as a torch ballad - &frac14; speed. 
 Jamming. From major productions like the Riverside 
 Jams to casual gatherings in the living room, I love 
 to play with others. Of course this could be due to the 
 fact that I'm a bass player and I can't sing&#133; 

 In the spirit of the season, think about your own "favorite 
 things" and enjoy the music hear, and the music you make. 
 Feel free to post some of your own bits of joy on the forums. 
 Get out there and play! 
 Dan Lasley 2001-12-20 
 Back to top 

 Previous lesson in 
 this series "Scaling Mountains" 

 Next to a list of 
 lessons in this series 

 Copyright &copy; 2002 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. 
 Privacy Statement. 
 Feedback. 
 Contact Us.