Bass For Beginners - Bass Guitar 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Intermediate Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , 
 Bass for Beginners 

 BASS FOR BEGINNERS 

 This series of articles is designed to give the beginning 
 bass player enough tools to get started and play competently 
 in a band. Each column focuses on a different aspect of playing 
 the bass, but they are intended to be read (and practiced) 
 in order. It is assumed that the musician can read music and 
 knows how to find the notes on the guitar. 

 Home Recording on a PC 
 By Paul Ortiz 

 Paul Ortiz gives us a wonderfully concise walk through 
 on how to go about recording music on your computer. 
 From knowing the computer itself to shaping your sound, 
 Paul provides you with the information you need to get 
 your music from your instrument into your computer. 

 Complete Lesson 

 Fretless and Free 
 By Dan Lasley 

 Despite the fact that frets were added to lutes and 
 sitars centuries ago, the acoustic bass (also known 
 as the "really big cello") is still fretless 
 today. And if it wasn't for Leo Fender, the electric 
 bass would be fretless too. 

 Complete Lesson 

 Waxing Philosophic 
 By Dan Lasley 
 A bass player has to have an entirely different attitude about 
 the music than the guitarist. A bass player doesn&#146;t have 
 to be flashy or loud, but a band can not survive very long 
 with a weak bass. While it is typical for a band to have 
 at least 2 6-string guitars it is extremely rare for a band 
 to have more than one bass player. 
 Timing is Everything 
 By Dan Lasley 
 Of all the aspects of bass playing, the ability to keep time, 
 even under duress, is the most important. Unfortunately, it 
 is also the most difficult skill to practice. But, the better 
 you are at keeping time, the more respect you will get from 
 other musicians. Moreover, once you have the timing down to 
 the point where you dont worry (as much) about it, you can 
 really get into the fun of playing bass without any of the 
 worries. 
 The Box 
 By Dan Lasley 
 If you play bass, youre often stuck with no music or other 
 clues as to what to play. In addition to listening carefully, 
 there are a few important tricks to learn. I hope to teach 
 you as many as I can. The first two are the Box and the Walk. 
 These two tools will allow you to get off the chord-root 
 without too much risk. 

 25 
 Essential Rock Bass Classics 
 Finally, bass guitar players can keep up with their 
 guitar counterparts with these off-the-record transcriptions 
 expressly done for bass guitar. This volume conatins 
 25 songs every bassist should know, including music 
 by: Aerosmith, The Beatles, Cream, Eric Clapton, Pink 
 Floyd, Queen, The Who, Yes, and more. 

 Buy 
 Online 

 Playing Along 
 By Dan Lasley 
 The toughest hurdle for me has always been trying to figure 
 out what to play when all you have is the chord pattern and 
 maybe a clue. In this lesson, I hope to show you some ways 
 to write your own bass-lines that are close to reality, or 
 at least they sound good. 
 Riff Raff 
 By Dan Lasley 
 For this lesson, let&#146;s take a break from some of the 
 more &#147;theoretical&#148; discussions and review some of 
 the fun bass riffs found in rock & roll. I am going to 
 focus on the two classes of riffs that I call &#147;walking-riffs&#148; 
 and &#147;octave-riffs&#148;. 
 Horse With No Name 
 By Dan Lasley 
 This column accompanies David&#146;s Easy Songs For Beginners 
 column on the same song. As you will recall, this song has 
 a simple driving bass line, with a couple of frills thrown 
 in. 
 Tone Loco 
 By Dan Lasley 
 This column will discuss some of the ways that you can get 
 different tones out of your bass. There are several simple 
 things that you can do to change your sound, sometimes right 
 in the middle of playing. I&#146;ve broken them down into 
 two main groups: Fingering and Controls. 
 Nice and Easy 
 By Dan Lasley 
 There are many songs where the bassline is BORING! However, 
 if you start to get &#147;creative&#148; when the listeners 
 expect &#147;simple&#148; it can backfire. Here is a quick 
 look at a few songs that are fairly simple to start with, 
 but provide some opportunities for fun. 

 How To Buy A Bass 
 Guitar 
 Bass For Beginners # 9 
 by Dan Lasley (08 Jul 2001) 
 This column will review some of the numerous things 
 that go into the design of a bass guitar. Some 
 matter more than others, and different people 
 have different tastes. Hopefully, when you are 
 done, you&#146;ll have an idea of what to look 
 for the next time you&#146;re in the mood for 
 a new bass. 
 Buying Your Second 
 Bass Amp 
 By Dan Lasley 
 Just about everyone who picks up the bass as a 
 beginner has a marginal practice amp to start 
 with. Which is why I&#146;m going to talk about 
 what to look for when you buy your second amp 
 &#150; your first real &#147;play it loud and 
 proud&#148; bass amp. 
 British Bass Amps 
 - Oh, the Majesty! 
 By Steve Smith 
 Here is the lowdown on British bass guitar amplifiers. 
 From Trace Eliot to Marshall, Steve Smith details 
 the similarities and differences between the various 
 amps and also gives you some help as to deciding 
 which may be the right one for you. 

 Generic Genres 
 By Dan Lasley 
 Even though a band claims to be &#147;hard-rock&#148; or whatever, 
 they probably play a lot of different genres (consider Van 
 Halen did &#147;Ice Cream Man&#148; and The Who did &#147;Squeezebox&#148;). 
 The point of this column is to help you realize you need to 
 know how to handle band situations. 
 Scaling Mountains 
 By Dan Lasley 
 In all the lessons I have written so far, I have never discussed 
 doing scales or serious &#147;shedding&#148; (practicing in 
 the shed for 2 hours minimum every day). I have always advocated 
 playing songs and using &#147;tools&#148; to create your basslines. 
 My Favorite Things 
 By Dan Lasley 
 This month's topic is entitled "The Joy of Guitar", 
 which is wonderful, because music brings lots of joy to lots 
 of people. David Hodge's original title was "My Favorite 
 Things", and since I already had an idea for that topic, 
 I have appropriated the title. 
 The Open Road 
 By Dan Lasley 
 Both "Riders on the Storm" and "Radar Love" 
 are road songs that depend on the bass providing the foundation 
 for the song. Both basslines employ a lot of open strings, 
 which I have encouraged you to avoid. 
 Two by Two 
 By Dan Lasley 
 Many of you have inquired about playing chords on the bass, 
 and so I thought I'd discuss how chords are built up from 
 notes, and how they apply to the bass. 

 Back to top 

 Copyright &copy; 2003 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. Masterlist. Privacy Statement. Contact Us.