-->

 Re: Fishing Stilly. 

[ Date Prev ][Date Next][ Thread Prev ][ Thread Next ][ Date Index ][ Thread Index ]

 Re: Fishing Stilly. 

 To : waflyfishers@eskimo.com 
 Subject : Re: Fishing Stilly. 
 From : "The Coles" < skokcole@qwest.net > 
 Date : Fri, 7 Dec 2001 06:35:12 -0800 
 References : < OE74bJgaT7OVjlAexg60000b00e@hotmail.com > 
 Reply-To : waflyfishers@eskimo.com 
 Resent-Date : Fri, 7 Dec 2001 06:34:39 -0800 
 Resent-From : waflyfishers@eskimo.com 
 Resent-Message-ID : <"-vGWe.0.gZ5._DD4y"@mx1> 
 Resent-Sender : waflyfishers-request@eskimo.com 

 I have been a 'silent partner' in this list up 
'til now but I just can't help myself any longer. It is very hard to 
witness stuff like the illegal (or otherwise) killing of wild fish and have 
basically no recourse other than risking a confrontation when you call people on 
their lawbreaking. When I was in Alaska, I would often run across people 
breaking the law by fishing/snagging/killing species in places where the fish 
were supposedly protected. Most of these lawbreakers did what they did out 
of ignorance while some were intentionally doing it. After a few "up close 
and personal" discussions with these fine citizens a couple of things became 
apparent. (1) People do not read the regulations, (2) It doesn't pay 
to confront people who are intentionally breaking the law, and (3) the F&W 
enforcement types don't have the resources to actively enforce the 
regulations. 

 I finally took it upon myself to make enlarged 
copies of the regulations for certain waters and species that were getting 
pounded illegally and posting the information on trees. I also began to 
take a camera with me to document some of the stuff that was going on so that 
there was some kind of documentation for the F&W types. 

 I think most people are good-intentioned and 
would refrain from doing this kind of stuff if they are educated. Maybe 
that would be a good project for TU, FFF, and others to pursue? As to the 
folks with sociopathic criminal intent, I would suggest carrying a camera 
or VCR, (maybe an audio recorder too), documenting the crimes and other 
pertinent information (license numbers, vehicle descriptions, etc) and taking 
the evidence to the authorities. I would not suggest confrontations as 
these can and do get ugly. What else can be done? Close certain 
waters entirely, I guess or maybe deputize fisherman that care about the 
rules. Anyway, there's my two cents worth.... 

 PS Mr. Lufkin... I am working on a 
response to your Alaskan Cohos in the Salt post. I should finish it this 
weekend... had to make a couple of phone calls to fishing partners Up 
There. 

 ----- Original Message ----- 
 From: 
 Les 
 Korcala 
 To: Washington Fly fishers 
 Sent: Thursday, December 06, 2001 11:32 
 PM 
 Subject: Fishing Stilly. 

 Hello everyone: 

 Went to Stilly early this morning , I could not believe what I saw on the 
 river. 

 I was fishing Fortston Hole and saw 6 bait fisherman's fishing 
 about 10' from each other. 
 In same time two of them had a fish on , both of them big steelhead, one 
 of them was asking other guy if he hooked wild fish , he said yes , he than 
 beach the fish went for the stick and start hitting on the head , broke the 
 stick he was all pits of of that. 

 Other guy killed he's steelhead with a rock , than he hooked the 
 fish on the hook stand near the river , while the fish was still moving and 
 fighting for it's life, this fish was still alive! 

 This whole thing made me very mad , did not want to get in between this 
 bunch of cruel assholes. 

 I went to other place to fish, a little down stream and saw two other 
 guys fishing , and one of them look to me like he was very young , he hooked 
 big fish , beached and the did not know how to get the hook out of he's mouth, 
 started sticking huge stick in to fish mouth, I went by and said : nice fish 
 it looks like wild run , in fact it was, than I said: 
 " to bad you have to put it back" The older guy said : no, no, you can 
 keep one from now on, than he started biting fish with a stick , another 
 asshole on the river! 

 All of those people look like locals from near by, the had no 
 appreciation for steelheads or any other fish which swimming in that beautiful 
 river. 

 They also look at you like you don't belong here, go home! 

 So here we have , if we are getting less and less wild fish , well today 
 was Thursday , and I saw in 2 hrs fishing 4 wild steelhead killed! 

 In order to protect this great fishery at " Forston 
 Hole" Fish authority should pay more attention at this 
 and other spots ,specially when the bait fishing season starts. 

 Thanks for your time . 

 Les 

 Ps: Sorry for my bad English. 

 Get more from the Web. FREE MSN Explorer download : http://explorer.msn.com 

 References :

 Fishing Stilly. 
 From: "Les Korcala" <leskorcala@hotmail.com> 

 Prev by Date:
 Fishing Stilly. Emergency Closure 

 Prev by thread:
 Re: Fishing Stilly. 

 Next by thread:
 Re: spey casting help? 

 Index(es):

 Date 
 Thread 

 Home | 
 Date Index | 
 Thread Index 
 Author Index