-->

 Re: Fishing Stilly. 

[ Date Prev ][ Date Next ][ Thread Prev ][ Thread Next ][ Date Index ][ Thread Index ]

 Re: Fishing Stilly. 

 To : < waflyfishers@eskimo.com > 
 Subject : Re: Fishing Stilly. 
 From : "Ray Wallace" < rwallace@greatnorthern.net > 
 Date : Thu, 6 Dec 2001 23:31:09 -0800 
 References : < OE74bJgaT7OVjlAexg60000b00e@hotmail.com > 
 Reply-To : waflyfishers@eskimo.com 
 Resent-Date : Thu, 6 Dec 2001 23:31:05 -0800 
 Resent-From : waflyfishers@eskimo.com 
 Resent-Message-ID : <"I49402.0.EZ4.u074y"@mx1> 
 Resent-Sender : waflyfishers-request@eskimo.com 

 Very sad. I was at Hazel Hole the Fri after 
Thanksgiving and watched 4 guys with spinning gear keep several fish. I 
wasn't absolutely certain of the regs, so I pulled them out and started reading. 
As I did this, another fellow walked over and let them know that they were 
screwing up. He talked with me afterward and said that they had no idea what 
river they where on or what the rules were. While we watched them fish, I called 
the Poaching Hotline on my cell phone and got an answering machine (3 day 
weekend). They then left before I could call anyone else. I didn't feel right 
calling 911 and didn't know who else to call. Fish and Game returned my call on 
Monday. Coincidentally I ran into the local Enforcement Officer (nice fellow to 
talk to by the way) while hanging out at the Flysmith in Marysville a few days 
later. I told him this story and he said that I should have called 911 and said 
that this is not an emergency. Next time I will. I'm sure that I will see more 
boneheads out there. 

 Ray 

 ----- Original Message ----- 
 From: 
 Les 
 Korcala 
 To: Washington Fly fishers 
 Sent: Thursday, December 06, 2001 11:32 
 PM 
 Subject: Fishing Stilly. 

 Hello everyone: 

 Went to Stilly early this morning , I could not believe what I saw on the 
 river. 

 I was fishing Fortston Hole and saw 6 bait fisherman's fishing 
 about 10' from each other. 
 In same time two of them had a fish on , both of them big steelhead, one 
 of them was asking other guy if he hooked wild fish , he said yes , he than 
 beach the fish went for the stick and start hitting on the head , broke the 
 stick he was all pits of of that. 

 Other guy killed he's steelhead with a rock , than he hooked the 
 fish on the hook stand near the river , while the fish was still moving and 
 fighting for it's life, this fish was still alive! 

 This whole thing made me very mad , did not want to get in between this 
 bunch of cruel assholes. 

 I went to other place to fish, a little down stream and saw two other 
 guys fishing , and one of them look to me like he was very young , he hooked 
 big fish , beached and the did not know how to get the hook out of he's mouth, 
 started sticking huge stick in to fish mouth, I went by and said : nice fish 
 it looks like wild run , in fact it was, than I said: 
 " to bad you have to put it back" The older guy said : no, no, you can 
 keep one from now on, than he started biting fish with a stick , another 
 asshole on the river! 

 All of those people look like locals from near by, the had no 
 appreciation for steelheads or any other fish which swimming in that beautiful 
 river. 

 They also look at you like you don't belong here, go home! 

 So here we have , if we are getting less and less wild fish , well today 
 was Thursday , and I saw in 2 hrs fishing 4 wild steelhead killed! 

 In order to protect this great fishery at " Forston 
 Hole" Fish authority should pay more attention at this 
 and other spots ,specially when the bait fishing season starts. 

 Thanks for your time . 

 Les 

 Ps: Sorry for my bad English. 

 Get more from the Web. FREE MSN Explorer download : http://explorer.msn.com 

 Follow-Ups :

 Fishing Stilly. Emergency Closure 
 From: Scott Craig <craigs@eskimo.com> 

 References :

 Fishing Stilly. 
 From: "Les Korcala" <leskorcala@hotmail.com> 

 Prev by Date:
 Re: spey casting help? 

 Next by Date:
 Fishing Stilly. 

 Prev by thread:
 Fishing Stilly. 

 Next by thread:
 Fishing Stilly. Emergency Closure 

 Index(es):

 Date 
 Thread 

 Home | 
 Date Index | 
 Thread Index 
 Author Index