-->

 Our new director speaks 

[ Date Prev ][ Date Next ][ Thread Prev ][ Thread Next ][ Date Index ][ Thread Index ]

 Our new director speaks 

 To : flyfish < waflyfishers@eskimo.com > 
 Subject : Our new director speaks 
 From : dan < dchall@jps.net > 
 Date : Sun, 17 Jan 1999 20:06:28 -0800 
 Reply-To : waflyfishers@eskimo.com 
 Resent-Date : Sun, 17 Jan 1999 20:05:09 -0800 
 Resent-From : waflyfishers@eskimo.com 
 Resent-Message-ID : <"STkDU3.0.-L3.qBhes"@mx1> 
 Resent-Sender : waflyfishers-request@eskimo.com 

New director likes things out in open

Bob Mottram; The News Tribune

"I'm an open-meeting kind of guy," the new director of fish and wildlife
declared. "I don't like operating in secret. I don't like closed
meetings.

"I want to hear from as many sides as I can before I make decisions. I'm
going to ask people their opinion, and I'm going to listen."

Director Jeff Koenings spoke Friday with The News Tribune in his fifth
day as head of Washington's Department of Fish and Wildlife. He replaced
Bern Shanks, who was forced to resign last September amid allegations by
some Fish and Wildlife Commission members that he had been derelict in
managing the agency's finances.

Koenings, a water scientist, spent the past 20 years with the Alaska
Department of Fish and Game, working his way up from area to regional to
headquarters responsibility. Most recently he was special assistant to
the Alaska director.

Why did he leave Alaska?

"I learned a lot of what there was to learn there," he said.

In a wide-ranging interview, Koenings touched on:

* His goal for salmon and steelhead - "To put 'use' back on the table,"
he said. To build up weak stocks, he said, such as Puget Sound wild
chinook and various Columbia River stocks so fisheries on them may
resume.

* His constituents - "The residents of the state of Washington; hunting
folks, fishing folks, non-consumptive folks, tribal folks," Koenings
said. Does he consider tribal members to be constituents? "I sure do.
They're co-managers on the fish side. On the hunting side it has not
been determined." He intends to be "professional and business-like" in
his dealings with tribes.

* Determining constituents' wishes - "First, I'm meeting with employees
of this department," Koenings said. "They're one of my constituents. I'm
visiting the regions, asking what they expect of me, telling them what I
expect of them. Next step is to go to various user groups, then to
tribal constituents, and ask them the same questions."

* The Legislature's and governor's roles in fish and wildlife management
- "They certainly have a role to play," Koenings said. "There has to be
communication back and forth. We have some problems to solve. These
things require money. They require leadership from the governor's
office." The department has a lead role to take, he said. It contains
the professionals who determine what recovery is and how to get there.
"Science is the compass," he said.

* Sport versus commercial fishing - "By law I'm directed to provide for
both," he said. Until the law changes, that will be his direction. The
policy now earmarks chinook and coho salmon primarily for recreational
fishermen, pink and sockeye salmon primarily for commercials. "I can
live with that," he said.

* U.S.-Canada negotiations - "They're going to continue the way they're
set up," Koenings said. "Curt (Smitch) is going to be the commissioner,
and this agency is going to provide the technical support."

* Working for Washington's best interests, not for Alaska's - "I'm from
Washington now," he said. "I'm not from Alaska. I'm in the same canoe,
just paddling from the other end."

* Trading sockeye for coho, with Canada - "I've not been briefed on it.
I don't want to get into that," he said.

* Mass marking of hatchery salmon, leading to selective fisheries -
"It's a tool that we need," Koenings said. "It may not be applicable to
every fishery or every region of the state, but it's moving ahead." He
doesn't think it will threaten the coded-wire-tag system. (All Puget
Sound coho are being marked, and the department is negotiating with
Canada and the tribes for the marking of all Puget Sound chinook
starting with the 1998 brood. They would enter the fishery in 2001.)

* Selective fisheries by commercials - "I think commercial fisheries
have to play a part in the recovery," he said. "But I don't know what
kind of time-and-area or gear changes might be necessary."

* Wildlife - "I'm the director of fish and wildlife," he said. In areas
of the department other than fisheries, people will have equal ability
with those in fisheries to do their jobs, he said.

* Wildlife issues on the front burner - Elk are declining, he said. Some
deer have parasite problems. Proposed wolf reintroductions need
attention. Bear and cougar control needs improving in the aftermath of
the ban on hound hunting. Watchable-wildlife programs need to be funded.

* Fish and wildlife management - "You're managing people," Koenings
said. "You're managing people's expectations - to make a livelihood, to
recreate. You've got to take that into consideration. You've got to be
sensitive to that."

* Non-consumptive use - The agency is seeking new federal dollars for
access, he said. "For people who just want to go out and see an elk or a
deer or waterfowl or swans. Access is the big thing. There are an awful
lot of people who want to do that."

* Shrinking fish and wildlife habitat - Purchase it, he said. The state
doesn't necessarily have to be the buyer. That can be a private
organization, such as Ducks Unlimited, the Nature Conservancy. "We need
to form partnerships with those groups," he said. "We've got to provide
time and area for animals to reproduce and grow."

* His personal outdoor activities - He has hunted for elk and deer. He
has fished for coho and chinook and for other species of fish. "I not
only love to hunt and fish, I love to eat it, as well," he said.

* The future of hunting - Is there one? "Absolutely," he said. "There's
a place and a future for it in Washington."

Koenings said he intends to be "a full-force director, until they throw
me out of the job."

Whenever that may be, he wants people to remember him "for the fact that
populations of salmon have recovered and there's use opportunity
associated with that. That wildlife populations are recovered. That
we've got an agency that's top-notch, with high morale, operating on all
cylinders."

He says he wants to nurture an agency that not only has the ability to
manage fish and wildlife, but that has the trust of the people of the
state, and their confidence that it is using their tax money
responsibly.

Can he do it?

"I can do it," he said.

 The News Tribune

January 13, 1999

 Prev by Date:
 more conservation information 

 Next by Date:
 (no subject) 

 Prev by thread:
 more conservation information 

 Next by thread:
 re: Our new director speaks 

 Index(es):

 Date 
 Thread 

 Home | 
 Date Index | 
 Thread Index 
 Author Index