1995/1996 Ski Log 
 1995/1996 Ski Log 

 June 22, 1996 - Arapahoe Basin 
 April 13-14, 1996 - Steamboat Springs 
 April 6, 1996 - Keystone 
 March 19, 1996 - Breckenridge 
 March 16-17, 1996 - Winter Park 
 March 9, 1996 - Copper Mountain 
 February 24, 1996 - Breckenridge 
 February 17, 1996 - Snowy Range, WY 
 February 3-7, 1996 - Keystone & Arapahoe Basin 
 December 23-24, 1995 - Monarch 
 December 16, 1995 - Winter Park 
 December 9, 1995 - Copper Mountain 
 November 23, 1995 - Keystone 
 November 11, 1995 - Loveland Basin 

 June 22, 1996 - Arapahoe Basin 

Well, I thought Steamboat was going to be my last skiing of the
season, but it turned out not to be so! I met a friend from
Aus tin
at
 A-Basin 
for just a little more before the season really ends!
It was dirty and rocky on the lower half of the mountain, but the
upper half was pretty reasonable. They had just gotten 2" of
new snow on Friday night. Wasn't what you'd call ideal skiing,
but what do you want for late June!?
 -- back to index -- 

 April 13-14, 1996 - Steamboat Springs 

Finally had a chance to return to the first place I ever went skiing,
 Steamboat Springs. 
Only this time I was able to drive instead of fly!
We closed them down, this was the last weekend Steamboat was open this
season, and with a late-season snowstorm rolling through just after
we arrived, it was two days of great skiing. Too bad they had scheduled
the closing, although with some of the melting going on at the base
(even after the cold Saturday) I guess I see why. Saturday the clouds
decended and you couldn't see 20 feet in front of you at the top.
That made for some exciting skiing. But Sunday the sun peeked out on
a regular basis and it was gorgeous.
 -- back to index -- 

 April 6, 1996 - Keystone 

Yes, had to make another trek back to Keystone. A little slushy
as it is getting a bit warm even at the base of the mountain. The
last weekend of night skiing was 
~ far
too crowded... sigh.
Another lousy day in paradise.
 -- back to index -- 

 March 19, 1996 - Breckenridge 

Our department at HP had a "team building" day at 
 Breckenridge 
today. Sure beats working!
 -- back to index -- 

 March 16-17, 1996 - Winter Park 

Took some visiting friends to
 Winter Park 
for the weekend. It snowed about 15" over the two days, mostly
cloudy the whole time. Learned to ski in powder whether I wanted
to or not! Fun but cold. 
 -- back to index -- 

 March 9, 1996 - Copper Mountain 

Well, car trouble sidelined me last weekend, but after getting a
new one (!) I was back on the road this week. Went back to Copper
with some folks who are much better than I am and wound up on a few
black diamond slopes ('I don't do bumps!!'). I managed a couple of
face-plants
and one fairly spectacular fall (judges gave it a 9.5). It was not
a pretty picture. But, as someone said to me on the shuttle back
to the parking lot, 'Of all the things in the world that suck, this
isn't one.'
 -- back to index -- 

 February 24, 1996 - Breckenridge 

I had never been to
 Breckenridge 
to ski yet, I had only been to
the town. The ski area is really nice. Parking isn't as easy as
some but the shuttles run frequently. The skiing was some of the
best I've ever experienced, but much of that was due to the snowfall
from last week to be sure. We stayed with some friends that night
and explored downtown a little more (and then got in some ice skating
at Keystone the next day).
 -- back to index -- 

 February 17, 1996 - Snowy Range, WY 

Ninety minutes up U. S. 287 and a little west of Laramie, WY, is a
little "neighborhood" ski area called Snowy Range. It has cheaper
lift tickets, less traffic on a holiday weekend, and shorter lift lines.
It was nice, although they could use some snow now, the dumping from
a few weeks ago is wearing off. But now I can say I've been to Wyoming.
 -- back to index -- 

 February 3-7, 1996 - Keystone & Arapahoe Basin 

Took a few days off to unwind at
 Keystone 
and
 Arapahoe Basin. 
Only went to A-Basin one of the 5 days and it was really windy, but
I had never been there before and I will go back. Get there early,
though, the parking lot is small!
 -- back to index -- 

 December 23-24, 1995 - Monarch 

 Monarch Ski Area 
is on Highway 50 between Gunnison and Salida in the San Juan
range in southern Colorado. It's a small, but very personal (and not
very crowded) resort. They're low-tech, they don't even use barcode
readers on their lift tickets yet. ;-) But it is a great place
to spend Christmas, especially when it's sunny and in the teens
and 20s every day. No snow-making here, so there are a few rocks,
but they had just gotten some new power, so it was pretty nice.
The runs from the highest lift take you along the Continental Divide
and give you a breath-taking view in all directions, including
Pike's Peak which is all the way over by Colorado Springs!
Monarch Lodge also serves the best filet I've ever 
had, and I've had some good ones!
 -- back to index -- 

 December 16, 1995 - Winter Park 

 Winter Park Resort 
is actually made up of 3 individual ski areas:
Winter Park, Mary Jane, and Vasquez. They're all connected together
and it is hard to realize you've passed from one to the
other unless you're paying attention. But we skied them all today!
It was cold, but not unbearably. The most unbearable part was
having to pay full price for lift tickets ($42!). None of our
coupons or membership cards that have worked at other places applied
here today. But we got lazy and didn't want to drive to a more distant
place.
 -- back to index -- 

 December 9, 1995 - Copper Mountain 

With a COLD 
front destined to move through the area, we decided to go to
 Copper Mountain 
for more skiing. The cold arctic air that came down from Canada this
weekend and chilled everybody east of the Rockies did not venture
west. So while in Denver, the low Saturday was 4 degrees, west of
the Continental Divide, where most of Colorado's ski resorts are, it
was a relatively pleasant 30 degrees. I can tell this section of
my web page is going to get real monotonous before winter is over!
 -- back to index -- 

 November 23, 1995 - Keystone 

So far, every Thanksgiving in my life has either been turkey
with my family or football with Texas A&M. This year, in a break
from tradition, I went skiing at
 Keystone Resort. 
I like my new tradition. I had heard that very few people go skiing
on Thanksgiving day itself, so it seemed like the perfect time to go.
The snow was great although only Keystone and North Peak were open,
The Outback hadn't gotten enough snow yet. We skied until
about 7:00pm (Keystone has night skiing). It was neither windy
nor cold as it often is there at night. Ok, so I missed the Cowboys
beat the Chiefs and I also missed the Horns beat Baylor (it just
isn't right to be playing someone else on Thanksgiving... it's one
thing not to be playing A&M, but it's just plain wrong to be playing
~ someone else
on Thanksgiving!), but through the wonder of
video tape this was made right again on Friday. I think I have a new
Thanksgiving tradition now. I can't wait for my new Christmas tradition!
 -- back to index -- 

 November 11, 1995 - Loveland Basin 

With only the 3rd big winter storm of the season, 
received 36 inches of snow in a 72-hour period late this week, making
a ski trip a reasonable thing to try. Since this is probably the
single biggest reason I moved up here, I wasn't hard to convince.
It was great, the snow was as good as I've seen it in January
(which is not to say perfect, but quite acceptable!). I was able
to try out my new skis and found that I'm not in such bad shape
after a fairly inactive as I might have thought. 5 lifts and 23 runs
were open and the before-Thanksgiving price for lift tickets is only $24.
What a day!
 -- back to index --