2001/2002 Ski Log 
 2001/2002 Ski Log 

 March 30, 2002 - Loveland 
 February 26-27 - Breckenridge 
 January 21, 2002 - Eldora 
 January 26, 2002 - Loveland 

 March 30, 2002 - Loveland 

Didn't think I'd get another trip in this year, but managed to
go once more with some friends and their foreign exchange student
who had never been skiing before (and she was quite good after a
2-hour lesson!). A little slushy at the bottom and icy at the
top, but that's to be expected for the end of the season.
Probably my least active ski season yet, but the times I went
were really fun. I promise to do better next year!
 -- back to index -- 

 February 26-27 - Breckenridge 

My sister and her husband made their annual trip to ski and
force me to take some time off work! We only skied for a couple
of days because we also went to visit Rick's brother in Colorado
Springs and Kat wasn't skiing because she's pregnant. And a
cold front came through and it was c-c-c-cold! But fun.
 -- back to index -- 

 January 21, 2002 - Eldora 
Well, it took me 7 years to go to the closest resort. Eldora
is a small resort west of Boulder and very popular with "the kids"
and such, doesn't get great snow, and usually people I ski with
never want to go. Today I decided to just take the holiday and
go skiing myself so the closest place seemed reasonable. The
morning began very windy, in fact I passed several cars leaving
the mountain on my way in because they had not yet opened the
main lifts. But the wind died down mid-morning and after a
couple of warm-up runs they other lifts were open, so it worked
out great for me because the crowd was minimal.
The conditions were actually pretty good, although by about 1pm
I had skied every run on the mountain. Still fun and not so far
from home.
 -- back to index -- 

 January 26, 2002 - Loveland 

Ran up to Loveland and again it was really windy and one of the lifts
was closed a good part of the day. At least we didn't go on Sunday,
a tanker truck overturned on I70 and the westbound lanes were closed
for 10 hours, that messed up a bunch of people's ski plans. Yeow.
 -- back to index --